Notable members of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Enugu East Senatorial zone have vowed to stage an upset against former governor, Chimaroke Nnamani, the Peoples Democratic, Party, PDP’s candidate for the election. The ex-president of the Senate, Chief Ken Nnamani and former governor of old Anambra State, Dr. Jim Nwobodo, have vowed to resist any attempt by the PDP to impose Nnamani on the people by proxy. They made the declaration on Monday during the official flag-off of the campaign of the APC candidate for the district, Prince Lawrence Eze. Senator Nnamani said the action of the PDP was a clear violation of the electoral act and the nation’s constitution. Nnamani wondered how someone who is in America could be declared winner of an election he did not participate in, adding that “Chimaroke Nnamani did not swear affidavit because such sensitive document cannot be sworn to by proxy, yet some people went behind to declare him winner of the PDP primary. “I know that there is no law in our land authorising someone to swear affidavit for another person. I am saying this because those who perpetrated this fraud may be matching to the prison. “This action shows that the PDP impunity is still rearing its ugly head in Enugu East senatorial zone. Our political process in the country as well as the zone is on trial. We are going to resist this undemocratic act, because I am an interested party in the matter. “We cannot have a senator by proxy”, he added, warning that the situation, if not properly handled, “is capable of igniting political crisis in the senatorial district. “I’m yet to know why PDP chose to commit such high level of impunity in my own senatorial district. “As much as we know, Chimaroke was not seen anywhere. He is still outside the country in his sick bed. Even if somebody filled the forms for him in proxy, the electoral law demands he must swore the court affidavits by himself.” Chief Nwobodo, in his remarks at the event, described the fronting of ex-governor Nnamani as candidate of the PDP as a great fraud which they must all join hands to resist at all cost. Nwobodo, and Nnamani boasted that he (Prince Eze), is likely to be the only candidate for Enugu East senatorial election and pleaded to be joined in the suit to seek ex-governor Chimaroke Nnamani’s disqualification from the contest. 