Nigeria’s former president Goodluck Jonathan, has said how former governors of his Peoples Democratic Party, who defected Those to the then opposition All Progressive Congress because they were “blinded by ambition” and plotted against him are now being victimised in the APC. Jonathan made the claim in a book about his tenure in office titled: “My Transition Hours” launched on Tuesday in Abuja, Nigeria’s capital. The former President, who lost the election to his challenger, Muhammadu Buhari of the APC, also blamed northern leaders who wanted power returned to their region for sabotaging his reelection bid. According to him, there were governors who were rounding off their eight years tenure and were blinded by ambition. “Some governors wanted to be Vice President whilst others strived to be the President. If I contested none could realise his ambition. This muffled implosion would fully manifest in the buildup to the 2015, which each ship-jumper calculating how much he or she would take from the PDP or the most opportune moment to cause maximum damage and based on that, plot their exit. “As they jumped ship in preparation for the 2015 elections, only very few of these lots, if any at all, bothered about what the PDP did or did not do in terms of delivering our campaign promises. Their opposition to my re-election was principally driven by personal ambition. They, therefore, played up the issue of where I come from and the faith, I professed to fuel their burning ambition. My performance mattered quite little, if it mattered at all,” he wrote. In the book, Jonathan added that in a twist of fate, most of the governors and other prominent members of the former ruling party who plotted against him are now being victimised in the APC. The PDP chieftain also said he faced a barrage of opposition from Northern leaders and the socio-political group who felt he was usurping power from the region, noting that these northern power blocs had tried to deny him of his constitutional right of replacing the late president Umaru Yar’Adua, who died in office, in 2010.  Jonathan said despite the threats and opposition he was able to win the 2011 election. “In spite of the threats and provocations to make the country ‘ungovernable’ for me, I had the overwhelming support of Nigerians in the run-up to the presidential election in 2011. I was able to win the election to the grace of God and the love of Nigerians. The election was all but won even before the whistle was blown for some strong factors. To mention a few, the pressure to preclude me from contesting in 2011, met with solid indignation from majority of Nigerians.” Jonathan said in 2015, some northern leaders continued to oppose his presidency and his bid to seek a second term in office, but a new element was added to the opposition: “constant fabrication of damaging stories”. “Many reasons make the onslaught in this context very suspect especially as it was being managed by foreign experts mostly from the United States. 