An indigenous herbal medicine producer, Yemkem International Nigeria Limited, has assured its customers to always look out for its highly effective and treated products to be produced next year. A representative of the company, Mr. Azeez Mebude, said in an exclusive interview with The Point, that  every product made from the company is very effective and well preserved. According to him, Yemkem is an indigenous herbal product which has been in existence for over 25 years and we source for our materials here in Nigeria and not outside the country,” adding “All our products are purely herbal.” Mebude explained that for the company to have been in existence for more than 25 years and people are still patronising them, definitely, they are getting the best from the company. “Just that the drugs are much coated and highly effective and we have range of about 53 products that cures ailment such as, infection, diabetics, hypertension and other diseases,” he
added. Speaking on the patronage at the Lagos Fair, he said, “we have lots of customers and we have been partaking in the trade fair for over 15 years now even before I joined the company and they have been making sales, definitely everybody knows Yemkem for its best products. He explained that the patronage is still high and even this year. “A lot of elderly people came and still recommended our drugs because they are highly effective and I will add that there is nothing we give to people here that they complain about. We are 100 per cent sure of our products to be
active.” However, Mebude  lamented that “the economy is generally affecting everybody.” “I could remember many years ago that I followed my chairman to Port Harcourt International Trade Fair, within three weeks we made a total sale of about N21 million but we can’t talk about that this year
because the economy is really telling on us but we are happy that people still recognise and like our products. “My chairman does research every time and while speaking about him; he is a highly educated man, well recognised personality, well-known, not only in Nigeria but other countries. For instance last year, there is one of our products we call it Aleku, so also Gongo Aso and many others, so definitely by next year, our customers should be expecting other products and not just a product but very coated products,” he said. “You can see our offices located in most of the states in Nigeria such as Lagos,
Edo, Ibadan, Port Harcourt, Abuja, among others and when talking about the company ‘Yemkem’, it is well- known in
Nigeria. 