The Federal Government has promised Nigerians better telecom services as efforts are on to have extra satellites to support the present Nigeria Communication Satellite (NIGCOMSAT).  Dr Adebayo Shittu, the Minister of Communication, gave the assurance on Thursday while speaking at the Sixth Regular Meeting of the National Council on Communication Technology in Abeokuta, Ogun.  According to him, the major reason for the additional communication satellites was to reach areas that could not easily be covered by terrestrial fiber.  He said there was a positive increase in the number of active telecommunication subscribers with an increase from 148.70 million in August 2015 to 162.05 million as at September 2018.  He made it known that Nigeria’s Foreign Direct Investment in telecommunication had increased from 32 billion dollars in 2015 to 40 billion dollars in 2018.  He reiterated the Federal Government’s resolve to use ICT as a way of economic diversification which would help in the nation’s economic recovery and massive employment generation for the teeming youths.  The minister said that Information Communication Technology (ICT) had really changed the way people communicate, learn and conduct business.  “The National Council on Communication Technology (NCCT) is the highest Governmental policy advisory body in the ICT sector.  He promised that government would continue to keep abreast of developments in the area of technology and its extensive influence and application to diverse sectors in Nigeria.  Also speaking, Gov. Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun, said that the state was committed to sustaining an ICT driven environment, adding that it would always play significant role in his administration.  Amosun said that his government would continue to work to channel the energy of youths into technology, calling on participants to deliberate and come out with initiatives that would make ICT to serve as weapon of mass development.  The governor urged the council to come up with a control mechanism to checkmate and curb illegal usage of social media platforms. 