The release of Executive Order Five by President Muhammadu Buhari which prescribed that henceforth the Federal Government shall patronise locally made products is a directive in the right direction as it will stimulate local production of goods and services and therefore a welcome development. By issuing Executive Order Five, there is no doubt that the Federal Government has renewed its determination to leverage on patronage of made in Nigeria products and giving preference to Nigerian professionals for all government projects in a decisive move to further grow the economy. We therefore caution that local manufacturers and producers of products must ensure that their products are not only of high standard, they must also meet international standard so that the Federal Government will not have any reason to reverse the order.  It must be noted that by patronising made in Nigeria products, the Federal Government is showing the way forward that all Nigerians must henceforth patronise locally produced products. Amplifying the implication of the executive order, Science and Technology Minister, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, said henceforth, preference shall be given to Nigerian professionals before an expatriate is considered for any project or contract. That being so, many local contractors in the construction industry who have been sidelined in the award of contracts should henceforth be patronised by the Federal Government as a sign of the government’s commitment to the letters of executive order five and for the execution of such contracts to have positive effects on the economy. There is no doubt that there are many local construction firms owned by Nigerians which can stand shoulder to shoulder with their foreign counterparts but are not being patronised by the government simply because they are local companies and are therefore adjudged as inferior to foreign owned firms operating in Nigeria.  It is hoped that with the release of executive order five many of such firms will be patronised by the government. The executive order also places an onus on Nigerian private sector operators to invest in research and development in order to meet international standard. Therefore they should collaborate with the various research institutes and universities in the area of technology and manpower training. For too long, the country has depended on income from oil and gas whose prices are subject to the vagaries of the international market for the development of the Nigerian economy. This is why each time the price of crude oil plunged in the international market the country’s economy too was forced to go into slumber thus endangering critical projects embarked upon by the government for the development of the economy. Also heartwarming was Dr. Onu’s announcement of government’s readiness to achieve a knowledge-based economy.  This is because it signals government’s readiness to embrace innovation and its willingness to deploy science and technology for the development of the country. If anything, the Federal Government’s move has become more compelling especially having been cognisant of the methodology deployed by the developed economies to develop their economies. in particular, the developed economies prioritized innovation and placed a lot of emphasis on investment in science and technology. If the federal government adopts this method it would also be possible for the country to develop the creativity of Nigerians and transform the country from a resource-based to a knowledge based
economy. Recall too that Nigeria’s over-dependence on importation of goods that could be produced locally over the years resulted in the weakening of the nation’s currency, it created massive unemployment in the economy and has been a major reason for its low Gross Domestic Products (GDP), thus leading to slow economic growth of the
country. It is a good thing that the government is now emphasising science, technology and innovation and it is deploying them to catalyse the economy to development. It is also ensuring that the fate of the country is rightly in the hands of Nigerians and that the country achieves a home grown development. Going forward and realising that implementation has always been the undoing of most government policies; the Federal Government must ensure that this time around, the implementation of Executive Order Five policy leads the country into an economy that is truly innovation and knowledge driven. 