The leader of Arewa community in Lagos State, Alhaji Damndama Yabo, has berated the Peoples Democratic Party and its governorship candidate in Lagos State, Jimi Agbaje, saying their efforts to win Lagos State in the coming election is nothing but a ‘white elephant project’. Yabo in an exclusive chat with The Point said the reign of PDP in Lagos state will only amount to calamity and disaster if voted, especially considering the 16 years that PDP spent at the federal government which, according to him, brought doom to the nation. “How will a reasonable person pray for PDP to take over Lagos State? This is the pilot state for other in Nigeria, and you will now vest it in the hands of the people who have no agenda for good things, they will just ruin it. Since the dispensation of the new democracy in Nigeria, Lagos, under the tutelage of Asiwaju Tinubu, has become a state to beat and this has continued from him to Fashola, to Ambode and now Sanwo-Olu with people basking in ecstasy of their governance. And you think they will now go and vote for some people that we know will bring us calamity. That will never be. We Arewa community in Lagos State, as usual, are ready to employ everything possible to ensure that Sanwo-Olu emerges our governor next year. Asiwaju has spoken, and I have told my people that he has the final say. Arewa community in Lagos APC is solidly behind the party and we are ready to deliver the massive vote for him in the coming election, ” he said.   Speaking further, Yabo said: “We Arewa community in Lagos State has been supporting Asiwaju Tinubu from the days of AD till now. We don’t have any other party apart except this APC. “Our tremendous efforts with Asiwaju cannot be overlooked. For instance, “We did massive campaign and rally together with Asiwaju after he brought Fashola, we did the same and ensure he was voted the governor, also when Asiwaju brought Ambode, the whole Arewa amalgamated and give Asiwaju the support. Now, it is Sanwo-Olu time and we will not relent. “Currently, I have been meeting various groups of Arewa in Lagos State to ensure massive support for Sanwo-Olu. Recently, I was at the campaign office with some of our people called Makau, kutuhu, guruju, who came and gave their support together at the campaign office. We Arewa of Lagos state will support, I don’t know anything about PDP.” Speaking on the candidacy of Atiku Abubakar ahead of 2019 presidential election, Yabo said: “Though Atiku is our brother from the north, I don’t want to stay in the same party with him because of his political prostitution. I wonder what he will offer the nation now that he is in PDP. If you look at PDP, they are the ones that scattered Nigeria and everybody knows it. I learnt that they said they have begged for forgiveness from Nigeria, but let me ask you if someone offends you many times and you forgive him and yet he keeps committing the same crime, will you continue forgiving him? PDP is not serious at all! “We are not scared of PDP and Atiku, because I know they will fail totally in Lagos and at the national level.” The Arewa leader, however, called for massive support of different tribes that made the group such as Hausa, Tapa, Idoma, and others not to relent in their efforts ensure Sanwo-Olu emerge the next governor of Lagos State. 