A support group for President Muhammadu Buhari, Re–Elect Buhari Movement, has declared that the discovery by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission of the alleged withdrawal of N6.5 billion in cash from Akwa Ibom State coffers is a vindication of its stance on the finances of the state. The cash was said to have been diverted from a derivation account to the imprest account of the Ministry of Justice/Office of the Accountant–General in the state. In a statement signed by its Convener, Mr. Emmanuel Umohinyang, the group noted that the latest development may just be a tip of the ice berg in the series of plundering of Akwa–Ibom State resources since 2015. The statement reads: “We recall that we have been shouting on the top of our voices about the level of development of Akwa Ibom state since the present administration took over in 2015. “We did not just raise our voices because we hate the governor, but we did so, after comparing the quantum of resources that has accrued to the state and the level of work done so far. “In the last three years, we make bold to say that the present administration has put the state in a reverse gear as there is nothing on ground to justify the humongous resources so far received under Governor Udom Emmanuel. “One cannot but be worried that the state by virtue of being an oil-producing state received far higher allocation than many of its counterparts across the country. In the neighboring states of Abia, Rivers, Cross Rivers and others, we can see projects across the states, yet our people are yearning for theirs. “This is not the first time we are shouting corruption even before the EFCC first discovered N1.45 billion was wired into slush accounts. “RBM, therefore, appeals to the EFFC to ensure that every kobo stolen from the state’s coffers till date be recovered forth with. And those indicted should also be arrested and prosecuted in the court of law to serve as a deterrent to others. This is in view of the fact that unlike the ‘uncommon transformation era’, Akwa Ibom people are seriously suffering under the government of “Mr. Integrity” and cannot bear the pain any longer.” However, the group appealed to the people to continue to maintain the peace despite recent revelations about the state’s resources, adding that their suffering would surely end in the coming months. 