ALEX OGWEMOH, Benin City The Bendel Insurance Football Club of Benin had put up an impressive performance against their bitter rivals, Shooting Stars Sports Club of Ibadan to earn a remarkable 2-1 victory .
The Benin Arsenals came from behind to beat the hard fighting 3sc and dethroned the visiting soccer foes in the Group B 1 table after picking 29 points at the University of Benin Sports Complex.
The tension-soaked week 17 game between the two traditional rivals was concluded after a heavy downpour forced postponement of its second half on Sunday evening.
The visitors were one goal up against their host after an awkward free-kick to send shock waves into the spines of the home fans.
At the resumption of the second half on Monday morning, the Insurers however stepped up their game as they gave everything to mount pressure on their visitors who later succumbed to the pressure in the 56th minutes when Kabiru Abdullahi struck for the home to electrify the Uniben arena.
The goal expectedly helped the players and fans recover from the visitors’ early goal, throwing the supporters into wide jubilation.
The determined Benin Arsenals who looked uncomfortable with the score line continued to pile up pressure on their visitors in search of the much needed winning goal which eventually came via a well-taken spot kick by the team Skipper, Charles Omokaro in the 90th minute after an opponent defender dropped a goal bound ball with his hand.
The victory over 3SC has now placed Insurance comfortably on top of the Group B1 table with 29 points from 17 games, with their last game against Spartans FC of Agege, Lagos on Wednesday.
The Oluyole Warriors however gave a good account of themselves but their old trick of falling without body contact and time wastage style obviously failed them as the no nonsense central referee unavoidably cautioned their goalkeeper and others for their petulance which necessitated additional 10 minutes extra time.
3SC who just played their last game in Benin are now second on the table with 28 points, thus reducing pressure on Insurance who will be travelling to Lagos for Spartans game.
Meanwhile, the state governor Mr Godwin Obaseki has showered praise on the team for the victory.
He accorded the team which includes his deputy, Comrade Philip Shaibu a warm reception in his office immediately after the game.
The State House of Assembly and Benson Idahosa University also congratulated the victorious insurance.
Speaking with our correspondent in Benin, the chief coach of Bendel Insurance, Baldwin Bazuaye who was visibly excited congratulated his boys, supporters and as well ascribed their success to government interest in the club. He said Insurance have never had it so good since a decade, hence their hard work to justify the committed resources.
Recall that top flight football actions have eluded the Benin Arsenals who were relegated to the NNL in 2007/2008 season thereby spending a decade in the country’s second division and now the threshold of returning to the elite football division.
Bendel Insurance Football Club, formerly known as the Vipers of Benin is one of the pioneer football clubs in the country founded in 1972. 