 ALEX OGWEMOH BENIN The Touch of unity heralding this year’s National Sports Festival arrived in the ancient city of Benin as the chairman, Edo Sports Commission, Barr. Godwin Dudu Orumen received the touch on behalf of the state Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki. In an address delivered by the commission chairman, Godwin Obaseki expressed delight to receive the touch of unity, adding that it will ginger the spirit of sportsmanship in Edo people and appeal to the sense of unity and love running through the land. “With the coming of the 19th National Sports Festival taking place in Abuja between 6th -16th of December 2018,we are not only reminded of sports being one of our greatest sources of unity but how through healthy competitions among ourselves, we are able to achieve the best in each of us for the common good of all.” “That Edo would be competing for laurels in the national sports festival gives me a very joyful sense of belonging and I am highly optimistic that our contingent would put up superlative performances in line with our remarkable sporting tradition.” He said with optimism. The touch bearer, Mr Sunny Obot, Zonal Coordinator, Federal Ministry of Sports, South-South, who handed the unity touch to Orumen in Government House during a brief ceremony, earlier said that the flame symbolizes love and unity which sports provide for Nigerians and sued for its sustainability, adding that Edo was the final destination of the touch which has been on tour of the six geographical zones of the country. Speaking with The Point newspaper Correspondent in Benin, the State Director of Sports, Mr Sunny Airende said that the coming of the unity touch to Edo was an indication of Edo involvement and readiness to participate in the games. “We are ready for the games and optimistic our athletes will do well. And I must commend the state Governor’s interest in sports development in the state. We are preparing about 300 athletes who will be competing in 29 games.” He said. According to him, the camp would soon be opened for the state athletes to intensify their preparation for the sports festival. 