Earlier today, the Senate directed the police operatives allegedly laying siege and sealing off the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly to vacate forthwith or risk six months sentence as provided for by the constitution of the country. It would be recalled that the senate yesterday mandated its committee on Police Affairs to probe the incident and report back to the hallowed chamber within 48 hours. But Senator Bassey Albert Akpan representing Akwa Ibom East on Thursday, under an adopted orders 42 and 52, reported that the Police siege and seal off of the State legislature was still in existence till date. In his submission, he said, “Mr. President and distinguished colleagues, yesterday I reported that the police laid siege on the Akwa Ibom state House of Assembly and regrettably they are still there as I speak. “Mr. President, this action is not right. It is undemocratic and therefore, a tyranny. “I, therefore, move a motion that the police should vacate the legislative complex. They have barricaded the place and, no lawmaker, staff of the Assembly and indigenes of the State is allowed to enter the state Assembly. This is unjust. “Mr. President I was informed that the reason for the police action was to pave way for the disaffected five members of the State Assembly to impeach the speaker and governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel”. But the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, in his contribution, invoked the apt constitutional provision against the Police action done under the pretext of providing security and maintaining law and order. He said, “There is a law assented by President Muhammadu Buhari which is called legislative Houses act 2017. The law is still operational. “Its section 8 says, a member of the legislative houses shall not be obstructed or hindered from moving inside the chamber. Any member so obstructed the speaker of the Assembly can arrest and prosecute the person or persons and the person risks a fine of N100,000 or six months jail”. After which the Senate President, Bukola Saraki raised the gavel in confirmation and directed that the police should vacate the legislative complex or risk the wrath of the law. 