Over 200 teachers from government and private owned schools recently benefited from the first edition of the Union Bank annual education fair, edu360 held in Lagos. The programme, according to the organizer, was part of the bank’s drive to upskill the workforce of the important sector. The teachers, aside from free training, also received free teaching aids to support their teaching efforts. Stakeholders from across the education ecosystem including parents, school owners, investors, students and other key participants were at the event. The event tagged “Investing in the Future”, according to the organiser served as a platform for collaboration among the education sector stakeholders, with the goal of accelerating development and much needed investment in the sector. Speaking at the ceremony to mark the kick-off of the two-day event, the Chief Executive Officer of Union Bank, Emeka Emuwa, reiterated the bank’s focus on education as a key driver of national development. He said Edu360 was positioned to be the leading education platform in Nigeria, facilitating collaboration among stakeholders within the sector. “We firmly believe that the private sector, working closely with the government and other stakeholders, can play a critical role in fast tracking solutions to move the educational sector forward. At Union Bank, we are committed to identifying sectors that are vital to shaping a better, sustainable future for Nigerians,” he said. While delivering the keynote address, the Managing Director of The Education Partnership Centre, Dr. Modupe Olateju-Adefeso, spoke extensively on the linkages between education and national development, drawing examples from the health sector. Over 70 exhibitors and partners, including Google, Lego, Sage, Nestle, Simpli Foods, as well as leading schools in and around Lagos, participated in the two-day exhibition to showcase their goods and services. There were also digital training sessions for parents and children courtesy Google in addition to Coding and Robotics classes. The fair also featured private workshops and seminars to address sensitive issues concerning raising well-adjusted children in today’s
world. 