BODC Trading and Investment Company Limited has unveiled Wepay, a new e-commerce platform, in Nigeria which promised to offer great customer services to online shoppers . This promise was made at the launch of the Wepay platform at the BODC office in Osborne Foreshore Estate, Ikoyi, Lagos, recently. The managing consultant, Akin Kehinde, in his welcome remarks, said that “the platform is poised to offer unmatchable sales deals and amazing after-sales services to our customers to ensure that they have the best customer experience.” He stated further, “We  pride ourselves as a platform that offers a wide range of products including the latest of the mobile devices available at cash or credit term payment option driven by a robust credit check technology. It is our focus on driving the best customer experience leveraging our strengths in the after sales and support in the industry. As a matter of fact, the purchase of a mobile device from our platform marks the beginning of a rewarding journey with us.” Akin stated some of the various extended warranties and aftercare services that came with the WePay e-commerce platform to include repairs and maintenance of customers’ devices, free accessories like battery chargers, Bluetooth earpieces, hands-free cords, beautiful device casings, external speakers, pouches, table holders and many more. “Our platform will offer the customers extended warranties of three to six months beyond the manufacturer’s warranty, screen protection insurance, opportunities for device upgrade as well as trade-in programmes,” he added. He informed that the WePay e-commerce platform was created to deliver to Nigerians the same world-class services their counterparts in the developed countries of the world enjoy in the area of online shopping. “We are bringing to Nigeria and Nigerians the same quality services that their contemporaries in most developed countries of the world have been enjoying for years,” he said. The company relies on the combination of its cutting-edge technology deployment and knowledge of the Nigerian market to deliver to the consumers the flexibility that allows them to live their full potential. However, Akin urged Nigerians, wherever they may be, to log on to the Wepay e-commerce portal,www.wepayng.com to purchase the devices of their choice with all the ease that the platform offers for various pickup locations or the option to have these devices delivered to them at their various locations nationwide within the shortest time possible. 