I’m no longer interested in the marriage – Hubby A mother of three, who simply identified herself as Bolanle, has raised the alarm that her husband of 17 years wants to kill her for insisting on meeting the members of his family and other relations. Bolanle, who hails from Kwara State, said her husband claimed he’s from Ishan, in Edo State, but never brought any member of his family to their residence or even allow her to see one of them even after she had had three children for him. She claimed that each time she tried to mount pressure on her husband over the matter, he would attack her and inflict injuries on her. But the estranged husband, Matthew Eguavon, told our correspondent on the phone that he was no longer interested in the marriage, adding that his wife should leave him alone and stop
complaining. Bolanle said their first son is 15 years old, while their second and third are 13 and 10, respectively. She said since she had been living with Eguavon, he had never agreed to let him meet his relations. Bolanle said, “I have tried so hard to make my husband show me his relations, but he refused. My children are grown up. Each time I begged him to do so, he would threaten to kill me and run away with the children. Twice he beat me in our residence at Magbon Check Point Road, along Badagry area, until I collapsed and fainted. People in the compound had to pour water on me to revive me. My family wants to know where he comes from. They want to know his relations, I mean his family members. He has seen members of my own family. Members of my family want to see members of his own family. The man has refused to let me know any member of his family. There was one aunty he introduced as his sister; that was the only family member he introduced me to until the woman died about six years ago. “My husband is a bricklayer while I’m a petty trader.  All the efforts I made to see his family proved abortive. It is very embarrassing that a woman would deliver three children within 17 years of marriage yet, she does not know the village where her husband comes from or even know any of his relations. About three years ago I mounted pressure on him to see his family with the children but he would not listen. Instead, he said he would travel first after which he would arrange for all of us to travel to see his family. Till date he never did. I gave him N10, 000 to travel to the village, he travelled and returned only to tell me that he gave them a fake address in the village because he did not want them to know where he is living. “We separated in December last year after our landlord gave us quit notice because he refused to pay house rent. I’m still living within the Magbon Check Point Road, along Badagry expressway. I don’t know where he is living now. But he abandoned the children for me to take care of. He would not bring feeding money, he would not assist in their school fees; now the children are no longer going to school. He does not care about the welfare of his children. He should better begin to pay money to court so that we can train the children.” When our correspondent called Eguavon on the phone, he said, “Who reported this matter to you? Why is she threatening my life? I’ve not seen her since June this year. She should leave me alone. I’m not interested in the marriage anymore. The children are with her.” 