…One in every two people with diabetes undiagnosed …Risk heart, brain damage  To avert complications from diabetes such as foot ulcer, Nigerians have been urged to go for regular screening for early detection and effective management  of the disease. Experts say undiagnosed diabetes can damage the  heart, kidney, brain and  eyes while urging  families  to show  love and support to  their loved ones living with diabetes. According to experts, regular screening will enable people know warning symptoms and  signs associated  with the disease by discovering, preventing  and managing it through proper education. Speaking at a media round table organised by Nigeria Health Online (NHO) in collaboration with  Roche Diabetes Products in Lagos recently to mark the 2018 World Diabetes  Day, a renowned endocrinologist and  Medical Director, Rainbow Hospital, Lagos, Dr. Afokoghene Isiavwe, said  persons living with undetected or poorly managed diabetes would develop a wide range of complications, including diabetes mellitus foot syndrome, which sometimes results in the amputation of the patient’s leg and death. Isiavwe revealed that knowing the signs and symptoms of diabetes  can lead to early diagnosis, adding that treatment is key to helping prevent or delay life-threatening complications. A Nigerian study recently  published by the British Medical Journal shows that  four million Nigerians have Type 2 diabetes. Commenting on this year’s theme which focused on the family, Isiavwe said type 2 diabetes prevention involves the family adopting a healthy lifestyle. ” Reducing your family’s risk starts at home. Eating healthy meals and exercising together is beneficial and encourages behaviors that could help prevent type 2 diabetes in the family. People with a family history of diabetes, should learn about diabetes, its risks, symptoms and complications and how to prevent them. Families need to live in an environment that supports healthy lifestyles and helps them to prevent type 2 diabetes”, she said. According to her, family support is key because diabetes management requires daily treatment, regular monitoring, a healthy lifestyle and  education. She added: “Detecting diabetes early involves the family too as  one in every two people with diabetes is undiagnosed.” For better treatment outcome, Isiavwe said  it was  important that  health professionals also  have the knowledge and skills to help individuals and families manage diabetes. She noted that it was important that appropriate care was given to patients and to also know when to refer them to specialist. Stressing the importance of diabetes education, the endocrinologist  urged  Health Maintenance  Organisations(HMOs)  and health insurance companies to reimburse diabetes education. Adding that informed and enlightened person living with diabetes is less likely to have problems in diabetes management and less likely to develop complications. In her remarks, Head , Roche Diabetes Care, Sub -Sahara Africa , Mrs Susan Snell , announced plans by Roche to introduce new devices in 2019  that would  help in early detection of new cases  of diabetes in
Nigeria. Snell noted  that Roche has been involved in diabetes patient care for  40 years by providing the Accu – check blood sugar measurement , which persons living with diabetes could use at home or anywhere they
are . She said the company constantly strives to improve on the device to ensure better accuracy in the measurement of blood sugar
level. The experts said  the primary aim of the World Diabetes Day and World Diabetes Month campaign is to raise awareness of the impact that diabetes has on the family and promote the role of the family in the management, care, prevention and education of the condition. 