  SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA  Police in Ogun State have arrested a 27year old homosexual, Olalekan Olawale who used to charge N50, 000 per night to sleep with yahoo boys in Lagos. The State Commissioner of Police, Armed Iliyasu, said that Olawale started vomiting blood immediately he confessed to the police about his homosexuality with the yahoo boys. Iliyasu who said that immediately the suspect was taken to the hospital for treatment and later released by the police on health ground, he went to join seven other car snatching syndicate to kidnap a lady within Abeokuta metropolis. Olawale was said to have connived with seven other members of the syndicate including, Danladi Isah, 25, Yetunde Adeosun, Tobi Adeosun, Dele Obey, Bayo Quaheeb, Oluwatosin Abayomi, Abel Womiloju to kidnap the lady and demanded N500,000 for her ransom. The CP said that they were arrested following the information received by the police about an intending armed robbery operation that was about to be carried out in Abeokuta and the operatives of the FSARS were alerted to foil the operation which led to their apprehension. Iliyasu said; “Olalekan Olawale further confessed that he has been homosexual and that he used to sleep with yahoo boys for a fee of N50, 000 per night. Five minutes later he started to vomit blood. He claimed to have sworn an oath never to divulge the information and that is the reason he was vomiting blood. He was quickly rushed to the hospital where he was treated and released for that purpose on compassionate ground.” “No sooner than he regained his health, there was a report of a high case of kidnapping a lady within Abeokuta metropolis and demanding a ransom of five hundred thousand naira (N500, 000) before the victim was released.” “Also on 12th of October 2018, the command received an information about an intending robbery operation to be carried out with Abeokuta metropolis, I then put FSARS operatives on red alert to foil the operation following which the operatives having identified the area where the robbery was to take place laid ambush for the hoodlums and eventually succeeded in nabbing Olawale and other members of the gang.” He added While confessing to the crime, Olawale said that he joined the car snatching syndicate after his bloody homosexual experience, adding that he used to sleep with the yahoo boys to fend for his wife and three kids who are staying with his parents. Olawale who regretted his actions, said he became a gay and joined the gang because of his greediness, as he was not satisfied with his income as an engineer. 