 A controversy is currently raging over the identity of persons who set ablaze a house belonging to a local chief, the Baale of Oregie, in the Ajegunle area of Lagos State, Chief R.B Arokomanohin. The Baale, our correspondent gathered, had told the police that he suspected a relation of his with whom he had a quarrel recently, as the perpetrator of the crime. But some of the tenants in the razed building denied the Baale’s claim, accusing him of being the actual culprit behind the arson. One of them, who simply identified herself as Basira, said, “Baale you’re lying; you set your own house ablaze after collecting one-year rent in advance from us. After collecting the money, you started building new rooms by the side of the house. You decided to set the building ablaze.” Another tenant, who preferred to be identified as Bosede, also said, “A Baale is not supposed to tell lies. But what we have here is a blatant liar called Baale. You set your own house ablaze. You have threatened to eject us at all costs and now you have set the house ablaze. You were at home when the fire began. You said you were sitting outside in front of the house, when the fire began. Why didn’t the fire affect his own apartment? Why did the fire start from the last room? We asked you what caused the fire, you said you did not know. You know! Baale, stop lying. You better return the money you collected from us. We still have many months more to live in the house, before you set it ablaze.” But the Baale argued that he couldn’t have set his own house on fire, as being alleged by his
tenants. He said, “I’m surprised about what they are saying. Is it possible for one to set his house ablaze because he wanted to eject tenants from the house? It is a foolish thing to do and I cannot do that. I did not set my house on fire. Please. It is annoying that somebody would accuse me of setting my house ablaze. Well, policemen are around now and they are going to investigate to know how the house was suddenly gutted by fire. “That’s all I can say for now. Yes, I was sitting in front of my house. I did not know when and how the fire began. It was people who alerted me to the fire. The people around tried to put out
the fire.” The Divisional Police Officer of Ajeromi Police Station, CSP Sunday Digha, was said to have called the fire fighters, who came to the scene with two tankers and assisted in putting out the fire. 