…Task team to stay focused against Argentina Former Super Eagles coach, Christian Chukwu and ex-international Friday Ekpo has commended the Super Eagles for the 2-0 defeat they handed down to ‘giant killers’ Iceland on June 22, at the ongoing FIFA World Cup in Russia and charged the team to work towards defeating Argentina in their last Group D tie. Ahmed Musa struck twice same day to become the first Nigerian to score at two World Cups as the Super Eagles secured a crucial 2-0 win over Iceland, who missed a penalty. Chukwu who spoke exclusively to The Point after the Group D cracker said, it not yet uhuru and Eagles must stay focused ahead of their last Group D game against ‘mighty’ Argentina. “I want to congratulate the Super Eagles for the great job they did by crushing Iceland 2-0 in their second game in Group D at the ongoing Mundial in Russia. “They made Nigerians proud and I thank Ahmed Musa for being the King of that match. But I want to charge the Eagles not to over celebrate until they crush Argentina. They must not let the victory against Iceland to go into their heads because more work is needed against Argentina,” he said. In his reaction, Ekpo commended the fighting spirit of Eagles especially in the second half and hailed the technical crew for a job well done.  “I want to thank and congratulate the players and technical crew of Super Eagles for the defeat of Iceland. The team was not fantastic in the first half until the necessary changes were made in the second half that eventually saw the team smoking! “It shows that Super Eagles have the capacity to go far in the tourney and I hope they prepare well against Argentina,” he said. Nigeria will secure a spot in the knockout stage if they beat Argentina on Tuesday in Group D’s final round of fixtures. A draw would be enough to eliminate the Argentines but would leave Nigeria’s fate hinging on the outcome of Iceland’s game against Croatia. With Croatia heading the group on six points Nigeria knew a second defeat would mean elimination and that was why Iceland started brightest against Nigeria on June 22 after coach Heimir Hallgrimsson changed to a 4-4-2 from the 4-5-1 he had used in the 1-1 draw with Argentina. Alfred Finnbogason, who scored the equaliser against Argentina as a lone striker, was joined up front by Jon Bodvarsson and the pair quickly made an impact. Captain Aron Gunnarsson launched a long throw into the box and, after Bodvarsson had made a nuisance of himself, a push gave Iceland a free-kick just outside the area. Gylfi Sigurdsson struck it smoothly round the wall but 19-year-old goalkeeper Francis Uzoho was able to make the save high to his right. Nigeria, with captain John Obi Mikel sitting deeper in midfield than against Croatia, slowly worked their way into the game with Victor Moses a constant threat on the right flank. The match became a stalemate until 10 minutes before half-time when Iceland came close to opening the scoring but Leon Balogun’s glancing header just did enough to thwart Gylfi Sigurdsson and Birkir Bjarnason lurking at the back post. And on the stroke of half-time Finnbogason came within a whisker of doubling his World Cup tally when he flashed wide Gylfi Sigurdsson’s whipped in free-kick. Gerhot Rohr brought on wing back Tyronne Ebuehi for Bryan Idowu at the start of the second half and Nigeria came out full of running. The tireless Moses was released down the right and his cross was met by Musa who teed up the ball deftly with the outside of his right foot before unleashing an unstoppable half-volley into the roof of the net. As he wheeled away in celebration his knee caught Ragnar Sigurdsson in the back of the head and the Iceland defender needed treatment, a bandage and a change of shirt after sustaining a nasty cut. Wilfred Ndidi forced Hannes Halldorsson into a fine fingertip save with a wickedly dipping shot from distance in the 58th minute. Musa made the game safe with his second goal, controlling a long ball without breaking stride and beating Kari Arnason before rounding Halldorsson and powering his shot past two covering defenders on
the line. 