A Non-Governmental Organisation, His Marvelous Grace Support Foundation, has called for the enactment of laws to stop female genital mutilation. The organisation also advocated support and enlightenment programmes against the practice in Nigeria. Speaking during the 6th anniversary celebrations of the NGO, the Founder, Dr. (Mrs.) Oluwadamisa Tayo-Ladega, said it had become imperative for the country to come up with laws to stop female genital mutilation, which she said had assumed an alarming rate lately. Tayo-Ladega, who described herself as a survivor of FGM, vowed to do everything within her capacity to put an end to the incidence of the scourge in the society. “We are currently working on eradicating Female Genital Mutilation, of which I’m a survivor. So, we are talking to even people who are still circumcising female children. We are ready to go to any length to fight it. I cannot believe that at this modern age parents are still practising this. Parents must be educated to make sure this stops, especially mothers and policies should be drawn out against this,” she said. The activist disclosed that she had already taken the campaigns against FGM to about 45 out of the 62 public schools in the Ikorodu area of Lagos, while the Foundation had also been engaging in counseling rape victims and children, who had been emotionally traumatised. She added that parents were not excluded from the programme as they served as the major facilitators on the various issues being tackled by the NGO. “When I was young, they would be abusing me and this emotional abuse affects one’s self-worth and self-esteem. They would tell me ‘you think you will make it because you are brilliant?’ You know comments that would bring me down. I went through emotional stress. I had to go for a three-month therapy to come out of it. I left my banking job to go into this to help children under the NGO without any ulterior motive.  I did not know that I had covered up to 45 schools in the course of this action. I go for parental talks and I advise parents to always complement their children to build their self-worth,” she said. Also speaking on the occasion, the Executive Director of the Kaduna Refinery and Petrochemical Company, Alhaji Abdullahi Idris, who was represented by Alhaji Aliu Okeme, stated that government needed to do more to protect vulnerable female children and women. “The vision is critical because it pertains to women and children in Nigeria, which is pertinent. The issue of woman and children should be held strongly because they are the most vulnerable in all areas- child trafficking, abuse, conflicts, FGM and all other vices. We should put up our hands to achieve the best. There is not a time that the government has done enough, they should do more,” he said. The KRPC boss urged victims to see themselves as survivors, who should voice out and report cases. He stated that victims should be encouraged so that they could overcome trauma and be rehabilitated, adding that the company would leave no stone unturned in assisting children and women in all areas. 