Like a daze of the locust, the social media was literarily subsumed in myriad comments, following the declaration, last week, by the Federal Government that June 12 is now to be venerated as Democracy Day. In a statement personally signed by President Muhammadu Buhari, the day is to be hallowed in remembrance of the abrasive annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election, believed to have been won by the presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party, late Basorun Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola, and his running mate, Alhaji Babagana Gingibe. The result of the election had been announced midway by the then National Electoral Commission and Abiola was leading with a wide margin, until the NEC suddenly went blank, declining to release the remainder of the poll’s results. A few days after, a terse statement was issued by the military government of General Ibrahim Babangida that the election had been annulled, with no reason given as to why it was cancelled. That poll was particularly adjudged as the fairest and freest election in the history of Nigeria, as it was conducted with virtually no incident. The Option A4 open balloting was adopted and even for a religiously sensitive Nigerian society, it was one poll that unified all, in that, a Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket was fortuitously thrust before the electorate through the Abiola-Babagana candidature, but the enthralled Nigerian voters jettisoned religious and even, ethnic sentiments to vote for the duo. After the annulment of the June 12 election, Nigeria has not been the same again, as various tepid socio-political occurrences have worked against a national integration, which a potential unifier – June 12 election – would possibly have achieved. Till date too, Babangida, head of the military junta that annulled the election, has yet to strike logic in his explanation of why the poll was cancelled. All that was glibly offered by him is that the action was beyond him and inevitable. To worsen a clear case of national injustice that was the June 12 annulment, Abiola, the winner of the election, was hurled in military detention over an allegation that he declared himself President, by the military administration of General Sani Abacha; a man who snatched power from civilian Ernest Shonekan, head of the Interim National Government. Recall that Babangida had beaten a stylish retreat, claiming he was stepping aside, when the heat of protests for the re-validation of June 12 election was growling to a furnace. Abacha incarcerated Abiola for over four years in solitary confinement, until the former, himself, died under befuddling circumstances. Following the death of Abacha, who was immediately succeeded by General Abdulsalami Abubakar, national discourse shifted to what to make of Abiola, who had a presidential mandate but was hampered by an election annulment. But barely a month after Abacha died, the military authorities shocked the nation, announcing that Abiola too had died. What killed the nation’s president-elect then, remains a mystery till date. But 25 years after, this month, President Buhari took what many have considered a bold step to correct the historic injustice to a man, who along with his running mate, won a presidential election and was denied his entitlement. Again, the Nigerian population that voted in Abiola also suffered the injury of political robbery, perpetrated by a military regime that many believed only wanted to perpetuate itself in power. As restitution for the annulled June 12 poll, the date is to henceforth become Democracry Day, as against the May 29 date of return of power to the civilians by the military, Buhari stated. Besides, Abiola is to get a posthumous national award of GCFR, being the highest national award in the land, reserved mostly for the President. Kingibe, his running mate, who is alive, is to smile home with a GCON bestowal. In all, it would seem that some financial compensations are to come in tow, especially the payment of severance gratuities and pensions due to a former President and Vice President, respectively. Under that regime, only Kingibe is to be superannuated with pension benefit, as Abiola is late. Besides, the Abiola family, which suffered emotional shock and all sorts of deprivation, owing to the long incarceration and unexplained death of its breadwinner, ought to be compensated, as a way of ensuring full atonement, which can only mitigate the pains suffered by the family members. Though many commentators, especially on the social media, have scoffed at the Federal Government’s gesture, describing it as ephemerally attached to President Buhari’s quest to attract votes from the South-West (where the late Abiola hailed from) in 2019, and that once the purpose is achieved, the presidential pronouncements will, at best, be left in the lurch. Such pessimists recalled a failed attempt by the former administration of President Goodluck Jonathan, to name the University of Lagos after Abiola. Buhari’s olive branch, spread to correct the June 12 injustice, they say, is a Greek gift, asking why the decision was taken three years into his administration and at a time the seeking of re-election is nigh. Though critics of the Buhari administration are largely plausible in sneering at the seemingly self-serving motive of the government in restituting the June 12 injustice, we still share the belief that it is better late than never, in that, once it is put in government’s official gazette, it becomes a reference point and a historic denouement to what would have eternally begged for moral explanation, from discerning minds in the succeeding
ages. The restitution has also helped to reflect on Nigeria’s dark past, and propped deep contemplations on measures that should be taken to fine-tune Nigeria’s current ugly and immature political realities. As such, recognising the June 12, 1993 presidential election as a watershed is a welcome development. 