…as group urges him not to relocate to Israel General Secretary of the Campaign for Democracy, Evangelist Ifeanyi Odili, has tasked politicians in the country to borrow a leaf from the founder of the Synagogue Church of all Nations, Prophet T.B. Joshua, who as a cleric, has touched the lives of the common people more than any politician has ever done. Odili, in a statement issued in Akure, Ondo State, to congratulate Joshua who turns 55 on June 12, said the man of God is a living example of the ideal Christian, as he is not given to vain words or undue material acquisition to the neglect of the suffering masses. Applauding Joshua, the CD general secretary said, “As a pro-democracy activist and evangelist of the Christ Apostolic Church, who is based here in Akure, I have taken time to study the lifestyle of Pastor T.B. Joshua and all his propagations and I have come to the conclusion that our politicians need to simply emulate him for Nigeria to advance. “They should borrow a leaf, and even, many leaves from his humility, candour and fervency in the propagation of what he believes in, which is the gospel of Christ. As an indigene of Ondo State, who is based in Lagos, he has not neglected his home as he keeps empowering jobless youths and setting up various platforms for them to realise their dreams. “He is not given to vain words and undue acquisition of material wealth to the detriment of the suffering masses. Initially, I thought his humanitarian gestures were limited to his home-state until I visited the Synagogue Church of All Nations in Lagos and found out that for him, humanitarian service is a daily obligation.” The activist, however, appealed to T.B. Joshua not to fully relocate to Israel as proposed, noting that the Nigerian society is enough task for him, and that only few of his type exist among men of God in the country. “I believe the man of God can extend his activities to Israel as he is mandated to spread the gospel to all parts of the world, but he should not relocate completely from Nigeria, as this decadent society needs his type to shape public morality and encourage social service. For me, the type of T.B Joshua are very, very few in Nigeria,” Odili stressed. Born on June 12, 1963 in Arigidi-Akoko, Ondo State, Joshua reportedly spent 15 months in his mother’s womb. He attended St. Stephens’ Anglican Primary School, Arigidi-Akoko, but failed to complete secondary school owing to poverty. While in primary school, he was referred to as ‘the small pastor’ as he led evangelical activities. 