The Nigeria Labour Congress in Ekiti State, has urged any successful governorship candidate in the July 14 election to be ready to pay their outstanding salaries after three months of inauguration as governor. The NLC said the entire labour force would mobilise against any government after three months of inception, if it fails to clear the eight months salaries currently being owed the workers in the state. The NLC chairman in Ekiti State, Comrade Raymond Adesanmi, disclosed this in Ado Ekiti during an interactive session the union had with candidate of Mega Party of Nigeria, Mr. Bisi Omoyeni. Adesanmi who said the union had started series of interface with governorship candidates ahead of the poll, presented the position paper of the union to the MPN candidate. Lamenting the condition of workers in Ekiti, with months of outstanding salaries, he added that the workers would only support a candidate who takes their welfare as priority. He said, ”We are giving whoever wins the forthcoming governorship election in Ekiti State three months after inauguration, to pay the outstanding salaries or we will rise against such government. Let it be cleared now. “The current state of workers where we are being owed between five and eight months of salaries is worrisome, and we are determined to put a stop to it; we can’t continue like this. We have been telling all candidates our position and let it be on record that, after three months, we want our arrears to be cleared; otherwise, we will mobilise against such government.” He explained that the position paper of the union was prepared by a team of experts and professionals cutting across major areas of governance such as Health, Education, Agriculture, public service, and private sector. The NLC chairman stressed that the incoming government would be given six months to implement the position paper in the interest of the state, saying that workers would not hesitate to stand against such government that fails to consider the document. Speaking earlier, Omoyeni, the candidate of MPN, said his government would make the welfare of workers a top priority. He promised that tuition fees payable in tertiary institutions in the step would be reduced by 50 %, adding that scholarship would be offered for indigent students across the
state. Omoyeni also said that he would focus if given the mandate on health, integrated agricultural development, vocational institution, water resource, full employment, and industrialization. 