A Mack truck conveying granite on Saturday killed a young lady and seriously injured a woman and her two children in the Magodo Estate area of Lagos. The fatal accident occurred when the driver of the fully loaded truck lost control after one of the tyres of the vehicle suddenly burst in motion. According to some residents of the area, attempts by the truck driver to avoid ramming the vehicle into a car in its front resulted in his total loss of control, and in his attempt to regain control, it ran into a cement store by the road side, instantly killing one of the occupants of the store and injuring the woman and her two children. It was gathered that the victims, who were all relations, including the injured woman, her two children and her younger sister, identified as Yemisi, were caught unawares and could not run for their lives before the truck hit them. Yemisi, who was the first to be hit by the truck, was also dragged some distance by the vehicle and her body dismembered before it also hit the woman and her two children. Our correspondent, who was at the scene of the accident, observed the injured woman, identified simply as Iya Samuel, and her children, being evacuated to the hospital in an ambulance provided by the Lagos State Emergency Management
Agency. A resident of the area, Joseph Patrick, said that the accident occurred shortly after the woman, her children and Yemisi, her late young sister, returned from a vigil in a nearby church. Patrick added that Yemisi only started to live with her elder sister, Iya Samuel, a few months ago, after she came to Lagos from their hometown, where she had left behind her own two children. The resident said, “Yemisi just came to stay with her sister some months ago. At that time, her sister was telling me to help her find a job she could survive on. Yesterday night, they were all at the church at the back here, where they had vigil overnight. It is unfortunate that despite the vigil such a tragedy could
befall them. “The truck lost its break and in the attempt by the driver to halt it, one of its tyres burst and it swerved to the roadside, where it crushed the family members.” Another resident, who simply identified herself as Nike, said, “I still saw Yemisi this morning, when she greeted me. I didn’t know that was our last conversation. She was on her way ascending the hill to call her nephew, when the truck rammed at them all. “ Meanwhile, officials of the LASEMA Response Unit were observed at the accident scene making efforts to remove the truck from the scene. An ambulance belonging to the LRU had earlier taken the corpse of the deceased to a mortuary, while the injured woman and her two children were also rushed to a hospital in another of the agency’s
ambulance. An official of LASEMA, who refused to be identified, said it had become imperative for the state government to take urgent measures to prevent the carnage that had become frequent around the accident scene at the junction between Shangisha and Magodo. A community leader, Alhaji Abolaji Mustapha, also called on the state government to help the community to find a means of preventing the occurrence of accidents at the spot. According to him, a commercial bus had last year rammed into some residents at the same spot, injuring several persons. Efforts by our correspondent to get the reaction of the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Superintendent Otti to the incident proved abortive. The police spokesman could not be reached on his mobile phone at press time. 