Following the recent suspension of the strike by the Joint Health Sector Union, life has returned to some Federal Government-owned hospitals. Consequently, patients now besiege such institutions, including the Lagos University Teaching Hospital in Idi-Araba; the National Orthopeadic Hospital, Igbobi, Lagos and the Federal Medical Centre, Abeokuta, Ogun State, amongst others. JOHESU had embarked on an indefinite strike on April 17, and the industrial action had entered its seventh week before the union called it off. Findings revealed that patients have started to receive optimal medical and surgical attention at various outpatient clinics, accident and emergency units, as well as the paediatric sections. Our correspondents, who visited LUTH during the week, observed that all the clinics were filled with patients. Doctors and other level of health workers were busy attending to patients. The registration desk, the pay points and the consulting rooms were all busy with activities. Similar busy atmosphere prevailed at the various other departments, including Diabetics, Cardiology, Neuro-surgery, Haematology, Paediatrics Cardiology, Paediatrics Neonatology, Immunoprophylaxis, Cleft palate, Gynaecology, Ear-Nose-Throat (ENT) and Orthopaedic
departments. At the Pharmacy, paying points as well as private and hospital’s diagnostic centres were also busy with patients. Doctors were also seen attending to patients at the annex of the teaching hospital at Harvey Road in Yaba, where the Dermatology unit is
located. At the Federal Medical Centre, Idi-Aba, Abeokuta, Ogun State, our correspondent observed an unusual number of attendance at the clinics, just as the medical team made efforts to attend to the patients quickly. But while some patients occupied the seats provided, others were seen leaning on the walls. A patient, Mr. Desmond Ibe, told our correspondent that the effects the JOHESU strike had on patients were enormous, before it was called off. According to him, he resides in Winners Chapel area of Ota of the state, but he had to bring his five-year-old son, who is undergoing examination for irregular fast-breathing, to the hospital; for treatment. “We have gone to the Cardiology (unit) and the cause has not been established. So, we were sent to Neurology, where we were told that it was the day we came for the appointment that the strike started,” he said. Similarly, at the National Orthopeadic Hospital, Igbobi, Lagos, patients were seen trooping to the hospital after the JOHESU strike was called off and the aggrieved health workers resumed normal duties. A member of the union at the hospital, who pleaded anonymity, told our correspondent that the JOHESU members heeded the directive of their national secretariat to suspend the strike because the state chapter had complied with the resumption
order. He noted that the members of the state chapter resumed work after a congress attended by all the leadership of the association to review developments affecting their members. 