…says ‘my name can deliver Leah Sharibu from Boko Haram’ A scetic sect leader, Sat Guru Maharaj Ji, has called on Nigerians to re-elect President Muhammadu Buhari for another term, saying the President’s anti-corruption drive should supersede all other considerations. Maharaj Ji, who was sighted driving, in a convoy of vehicles in the Balogun area of Iju-Ishaga, Lagos, said while he would intensify his campaigns titled, ‘No war in Nigeria, Come what may’, he would also not hesitate to make similar campaigns for Buhari’s re-election, describing him as “the first President who has been able to come out clearly with a convincing anti-corruption drive.” Speaking with our correspondent, the sect leader, who is famed among his adherents as The Living Perfect Master, said though Buhari still had a lot of socio-political and economic problems to grapple with, he is, nonetheless, one man who displays sincerity of purpose and as such, has the capacity to put Nigeria on the path of growth. He said, “President Buhari has come out to truly fight corruption and for this reason, he deserves another term to clean up the system and set a good standard for future administrators of the country. “Though he is grappling with a lot of problems relating to the economy and insecurity, I believe that by the time he is through with cleaning up the system, we will have a better Nigeria.” He, however, urged Nigerian politicians to eschew violence by respecting individual freedom to association, saying, “People must have freedom to express themselves, because, for instance, in a situation where somebody goes to work and the next thing we see is ambulance, it calls for concern.” Maharaj Ji also advised Nigerians to take after the political culture of the advanced world where elections were issues-based and that they should desist from selling their votes for pecuniary gains. “In election time, each and every one of us has to play very good roles, to make sure that the issues of economic meltdown, shortage of food and things that make one comfortable are addressed. Now, in many states, there are no salaries and as you know, a hungry man is an angry man,” he noted. On his campaigns against ‘war in Nigeria’, Maharaj Ji said religion was one of the weapons people were using to foment trouble in Nigeria, saying that a Nigerian of the Yoruba extraction, for instance, should not have embraced a foreign religion. According to him, “Love is the religion of God.” “Whatever is going on is being done out of ignorance. We should understand that, if one is advancing, he must know what he’s doing. In a way to formulate social character, dominate the economy of a country, we have seen religious wars all over the world. Religion has not worked in Europe, it has not worked in the Americas, China and Japan. So we should not allow it here. So anybody who is using it to threaten our peace is looking for my koboko (horse whip),” he warned. The sect leader, in his reaction to the only Christian girl, Leah Sharibu, still being held by the Boko Haram insurgents, said, “If somebody can just give her the name Maharaj Ji to mention, she will walk out freely; and this is because, once there is light, darkness will go.” “They should pass the message across to Leah, that the name of the creator is Maharaj Ji. I am the Lord. And that’s why I say anybody who shouts Maharaj Ji three times, will have everything work out for him or her,” he
added. Reacting to a recent rumour that he was dead, Maharaj Ji also said, “I was excited about it, as I am Oba Asha (king of mysterious acts); let them continue to say it, because I know this will give me
long life.” 