The Founder of the pan-Yoruba group, Oodua People’s Congress, Dr. Fredrick Fasehun, has said that Nigeria has come under siege with the alleged highhandedness of the operatives of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad across the country. He said that the illegalities perpetrated by FSARS operatives in all parts of the country had virtually turned the country to a police state. Fasehun told our correspondent that the FSARS had lost its original focus. He said, “Instead of implementing its primary objective of curtailing armed robbery in the country, it has turned itself to an army of occupation, harassing and pilfering money from innocent citizens. “Unfortunately, the government ignored the End -SARS Campaign. But the End-SARS Campaign must be revisited. Nigeria did not need SARS to end the evil regimes of notorious armed robbers like Oyenusi and Anini, and even less now that crime-fighting and crime-bursting in most parts of the world are technologically driven. “Imagine SARS apprehending youths and forcing them to bank ATM machines to withdraw cash to “bail” themselves from illegal arrests. Why should police be searching people’s phones and laptops on the streets?   “All these are a brazen violation of citizens’ fundamental rights. Various sections of the Constitution and Police Act forbid the abridging of a Nigerian’s right to human and personal dignity; right to personal liberty; right to fair hearing; right to freedom of movement and right to freedom from discrimination. The Constitution in Section 35 (2) stipulates that, “Any person who is arrested or detained shall have the right to remain silent or avoid answering any question until after consultation with a legal practitioner or any other person of his own choice. “What we see now is that police arrest and intimidate people into confessing to crimes they know nothing about, without respecting their right to legal counsel and representation. This must stop.” Also speaking on the 19th year of Nigeria’s democracy, Fasehun said, “If there is anything to cheer, it is that against all odds, this current Republic has broken our previous records of short-lived democracy. The First Republic ended within seven years, the Second Republic performed even worse, expiring just after its fourth birthday. The Third Republic that should have seen late Bashorun M.K.O. Abiola as Nigeria’s most popular President collapsed before it could really take off, despite having state legislatures, state executives and the National Assembly in place.” “However, apart from celebrating the longevity of the Fourth Republic, there appears to be little else to cheer. The last 19 years have been a continuous trudging in the wilderness. Politicians voted into power, and expected to relieve the people’s sufferings, have revealed themselves as locusts and cankerworms of corruption and ineptitude, who significantly increase citizens’ woes and burdens.” 