A retired Assistant Superintendent of Police, Augustine Ugwu, can now heave a sigh of relief as the Nigeria Police Force has compensated him, 15 years after he was shot by suspected armed robbers along the Lagos-Badagry Expressway, Lagos. The suspected robbers, dressed in military uniform, shot Ugwu, who was on a patrol alongside his three other colleagues, who later died. The retired ASP said no fewer than 10 bullets were extracted from his body, inflicting deadly injuries on him, adding that the injuries were enough to kill anybody, but God spared his life. He said on phone that he was even contemplating suicide when the police authorities remembered and paid him his entitlement. Before he was paid compensation, Ugwu said he had already relocated from his Police Queens Barracks, Apapa, Quarters, to his village in Enugu State, since last year. Ugwu said, “I thank God today that the Nigeria Police Force remembered me after 15 years.  My three colleagues and I were attacked by armed robbers in Army uniform. All the policemen died, except me. I’m the only survivor. I retired in 2015, but the authorities did not pay me until recently. The authorities did not pay me compensation, retirement benefits and other entitlements. I thank the Nigeria Police and the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Ibrahim Idris, for remembering a dying man. “But I thank God I will now fight more to be alive. I was contemplating suicide last year. But something told me not to do something stupid. So, I waited because I’m not the owner of my soul. So, seek the face of God even in the face of danger and death. As I’m talking to you now, I’m dying slowly. My mother is now taking care of me in the village. My health is fast deteriorating. The two hands are already gangrened. I wonder if the
native doctor in the village can cure it. I’m now combining the two. Both native and orthodox
medicine.” Recalling further how the fatal shooting incident occurred, Ugwu, who retired from the Force on May 30, 2015, said, “On January 30, 2003, we were in our patrol vehicle. Then, I was a police inspector attached to the Ojo Police Station, Lagos State Police Command. As we were patrolling along the Lagos - Badagry Expressway, we wanted to negotiate a bend at Cele Niger bus stop area, when we saw a mini bus conveying those we mistook for soldiers. We became relaxed without envisaging any danger. Suddenly, the mini-bus moved closer to us and those we thought were soldiers turned out to be armed robbers in Army uniform. “They opened fire on us from behind. They took us unawares. Inspector Jimoh, Corporal Bekeh, a sergeant and I were shot. They rained bullets on us at a close range. They robbed passengers and other motorists. We were moved to a mortuary. But as they were putting us inside the morgue, my leg shook. Somebody noticed it and called on doctors, who rushed me to the emergency ward. That was how I survived. My three colleagues died. Though I survived, I’ve since been living in pains, excruciating and unbearable pains for 15 years now. Anyway, I thank God that I’m
still alive.” Ugwu said before he was paid his entitlements and benefits, he became a beggar due to his injuries, which was oozing stench. He added that he spent N3,000 on a daily basis to
treat himself. 