The National Association of Okun Students has commended the security arrangement at the campus of the Lagos State Polytechnic. The association had, as part of their tour to institutions across country, visited LASPOTECH to meet with some of its members in the school, but said it was amazed at the level of security arrangement put in place by the authorities of the school. According to the association, unlike the other institutions they had visited, they were restricted by the authorities of LASPOTECH from entering the campus without proper authorisation. NAOS National President, Comrade Jacob Abraham Damilare, disclosed this in a chat with our correspondent. Damilare said, “As part of our promise to Okun students that we will bring the association down to every student on campus, we decided to go on a tour to some of the tertiary institutions in the South West states and eventually visited Lagos State Polytechnic, Ikorodu, Lagos. “Lagos State Polytechnic, if I must say the truth, is one of the institutions worthy of applauding for having a solid and active security personnel, who are actually up and doing in their duties. “We wanted to go into the campus on our usual Aluta way, since we came with our national bus, but it will amaze you that the security personnel calmed our spirits down and watered it with the need for due process and we were directed to the school’s security unit, where we were officially welcomed and further directed to the office of the Dean of Student’s Affairs.” The NAOS national president also commended the LASPOTECH Dean of Student Affairs, Engr. Yakubu Bankole. The NAOS national president further said, “I must, as the NAOS national president, commend the proactive zeal of the dean of student affairs, who, to the best of our knowledge, is up and doing. Very diligent and competent. “The environment is highly conducive for academic activities. The students’ union of the institution, I must confess, is performing. I was so happy when I saw a student taxi managed and owned by the SUG. This is very much impressive. Student’s welfare is actually a priority. “Okun students, who are students of the Lagos State Polytechnic, with what I have seen, I am convinced they are in safe hands. National Association of Okun Students is the apex indigenous student union in the Kogi West Senatorial District of Kogi State. We admonish LASPOTECH authorities to keep maintaining the enviable standard they have placed on security of lives and property in the
institution.” Meanwhile, the LASPOTECH Dean of Student Affairs, Bankole, welcomed the association and commended its efforts to better the lot of Okun students in tertiary institutions nationwide. “I appreciate your efforts for coming around, keep up the good work.  The school will continue to maintain her excellent performance in all facets that will be of benefit to the students, management, the state, the country and the world at Large,” he said. 