 Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital has been chosen as hosts of the 24th edition of the Chief Justice of Nigeria Sport Competition for judiciary workers in the country which holds from August 29 to September 8, 2018. This was announced during the seminar held for judiciary workers at the Supreme Court Conference Hall in Abuja. In a paper delivered at the seminar with the theme, ” Sports Administration and Management, a tool for effective Service Delivery”, the guest speaker, Dr. Monica Otumala of the Federal Ministry of Sports and Youth Development identified sport as a veritable tool for effective and diligent service in various disciplines positing that mentally and physically challenged person involved in sports are always at alert when performing any job assigned to them. “I want to let you know, that it has been proved that a physically and mentally challenged person in public service , plays his role effectively and discharges his  duties diligently, due to the skills and discipline acquired through sports administration and management which  helps him to deliver his daily job effectively,” she said. In his welcome address, President, National Sports Association For Judiciary  (NASAJ), Comrade Emeka Ndili cautioned  the delegates to avoid tarnishing the image of the association  and the judiciary in general by not making use of non bona fide staff otherwise known as mercenaries in the competition, warning that heavy penalties await offenders. “I want to urge all the delegates to exhibit good sense of sportsmanship during the games and avoid the use of mercenaries because it will attract heavy penalty. “Use of mercenaries will rubbish the image of the games and give undue advantage to agencies who did not prepare well for the competition and that is why we must continue to fight against it,” he stressed. In his acceptance speech for the hosting right, the Chief Justice of Rivers State, Hon Justice Iyayi Lamkanra who was represented by the Chief Registrar, Mr. Kobani Buzugbe, assured all the delegates of the good hospitality associated with the state, advising them to see the forth coming games as a unifying factor and a platform for interaction and building lasting relationship. He announced that arrival date for the tourney will be August 29 while screening and documentation will take place from August 30-31 with the official opening ceremony taking place on September 1. Meanwhile the Media Consultant to the association, Pastor Udochukwu Emmanuel, has described the choice of Port Harcourt as a welcome development and confirms the cordial relationship existing between the body and Rivers State judiciary 