 Nigerians across different ethnic gropus and professions have called on members of the National Assembly and the ruling All Progressives Congress to stop playing politics with salient issues that will determine the direction of Nigeria’s economy beyond 2019. Citizens, who spoke in separate interviews with our correspondents, indicated that there was more to the stalemate at the National Assembly than meets the eye. The general fear being expressed is that if the ‘warring’ parties are not called to order, the 2019 general elections may not hold as scheduled. The Point gathered that the Independent National Electoral Commission committees of both the House of Representatives and the Senate, after meeting with INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu and Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udo Udoma, would have to make their submission to the Appropriation committees of both the House and the Senate. It is only after this, that the National Assembly can resume to receive the INEC Budget committee’s reports. Senate President Bukola Saraki has also said that the National Assembly cannot reconvene now because there is no report to consider. Against the fear that the INEC budget might not be passed as soon as expected, the Chairman, Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption, Prof. Itse Sagay, also suggested that President Muhammadu Buhari should adopt the doctrine of necessity by raising money for INEC before the National Assembly’s approval. He said, “Election constitutes the threshold of democracy. Without election, there will be no democracy and since democracy is overriding, if any group of persons that have a role to play for it to survive refused to do so, they are trying to scuttle democracy. And, therefore, in order to save democracy, the doctrine of necessity will be used.” Also speaking on the issue, the National Chairman, United Progressive Party, Chief Chekwas Okorie, said no one was happy with the current situation surrounding the 2019 election budget. “It is not good that the preparation for the conduct of the 2019 election is being delayed as a result of misunderstanding between the National Assembly and the executive arm of government. My position is to appeal to the National Assembly to quickly reconvene and get this matter resolved. Some people have suggested some kind of doctrine of necessity to source money from somewhere, I won’t quickly subscribe to that because it would mean trying to circumvent the National Assembly in its duty. “But at the same time, the National Assembly should not hold the nation to ransom because somebody may lose his position at the detriment of the whole country. My position is that the National Assembly should quickly reconvene to consider the INEC budget. “ He said if the National Assembly, however, failed to heed the appeal of eminent Nigerians to reconvene, President  Buhari should exercise his right in a case of emergency through special dispensation, saying, “I may not call that the doctrine of necessity.” He said he also agreed with the position that the Attorney General should quickly go to the Supreme Court for interpretation concerning the current logjam in the National Assembly. “Rather than allow a situation where INEC will not have money for preparation for the 2019 election, I will be of the opinion that the President should exercise the right of special dispensation to intervene and provide the funds for the election to take place. What has happened to the National Assembly is unprecedented,” he said. He, however, disagreed with those saying that the Clerk of the National Assembly should reconvene the National Assembly without recourse to the Senate president, noting that such an action would bring more chaos. An Arewa leader, Tanko Yakasai, said Nigerians had been disappointed by this government in several ways. “On the election budget, both arms of government are responsible and I would advise them to put their house in order and move this country forward. It is never too late to do the right thing,” he told The Point.  Logjam can be resolved through Constitution Also lending his voice to the current political challenge, a former member of the National Assembly from Ekiti State, Senator Ayo Arise, said, “It will not be difficult to resolve the National Assembly logjam if we follow the Constitution. The situation that we have in the National Assembly, I have discussed privately with some party leaders. Those who defected from the All Progressives Congress to the Peoples Democratic Party had automatically forfeited their seats. And of course, that is one of the ways a Senator can lose his seat. This is explained in Section 68: 1 of the Constitution. Since they have forfeited their seats, the Clerk of the National Assembly should reconvene the National Assembly for a new Senate President to emerge since the Senate President is not a member of the party through which he was elected and he is no longer a member of the National Assembly. Defection is not permitted unless there is a division in the party and the definition of division has been given to us by the Supreme Court. “There is a precedent and that was the judgment in the case of Ifedayo Abegunde, who defected from the Labour Party to APC. The Supreme Court defined the difference between factionalisation and fractionalisation. It is not a case for the APC to go to High Court, they should go straight to the Supreme Court. This matter can be resolved in one week.  But if we don’t want to implement what the law says, that is a different kettle of fish.” He added, “If we don’t do something quickly and we are awaiting the Senate President that is at large, who has left the party that elected him, and according to Section 68: 1g of the Constitution, is no more a member of the National Assembly, we will continue to be at logjam and there will be no solution because the person who still believes he is the Senate President will continue to hold on to the seat.” Some forces bent on frustrating 2019 elections – Afenifere The National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, Mr. Yinka Odumakin, said he believed that some forces were determined to frustrate the 2019 general elections. Maintaining that there was a high level of incompetence that had not been seen before in Nigeria, he said, “An election case is like pregnancy. Once it is confirmed today, it means that in the next nine months, you will deliver. And that tells you the need to start preparing for it. How can the baby come and you will say you don’t know you will deliver? Why is this government just presenting the election budget now? Now, the National Assembly may have its problem, but on this one, I don’t see them being blamed. “Once they have gone on recess, it is statutory, you can only appeal to them to come back to consider the budget because of the failure and incompetence of the Executive. It is not as if they are running away from their obligations. The fact is that the budget was not presented when it was supposed to be presented. But we will appeal to the National Assembly that this is a matter of urgent national importance. Despite the failure on the part of the Executive, they should come back and do the needful and pass the budget so that if there are other forces who are working for the election not to hold, they can be easily known. The National Assembly should sign the budget. In 2019, the bulk of the work is on Nigerians to elect new leaders that will not be handling their affairs with levity.” ‘Burden of pain, anger is too much’ The National Chairman, National Conscience Party, Tanko Yinusa, said, “When you are in government, the whole government becomes your constituency and you must work against anything that will not allow you to deliver your promises to the people. What I am saying is that the government of the day is trying to pass the bulk of the blame to the National Assembly. “The truth of the matter is that they have done very well to have a continuous working relationship with the National Assembly because the question has been that they have been undermining the activities of the National Assembly. And the National Assembly members feel they have been taken for granted by the Executive. At this point in time, when we are about to have an election, the two bodies must come together to agree so that they can move the country to a promised land.” He added, “The burden of pain, agony and anger is too much in the land. They must be relieved. They have always been trying to prove to the people that they are trying. I heard the Minister of Information saying they have turned the country into a construction site and I laughed. “That is not fair; they are just insulting the intelligence of Nigerians. How can you say such a thing? When people can tell that nothing is going on. They keep on making a budget that is increasing every year, and yet the people are not feeling the impact of the budget.” Nobody should hold Nigerians to ransom Former presidential aide and Director-General, News Agency of Nigeria, Mr. Akin Osuntokun, said the amount the government proposed was exorbitant, adding that there was an element of blackmail in that because the issue was about elections. He said, “I think the amount they are asking for is outrageous. This government is just putting the people on the receiving end. How will such an amount be requested for an election? Let me tell you, nobody should hold us to ransom in this country anymore. Supposing Nigeria does not have such amount of money, what will happen? Why is it that this government believes that because we have the money, they should spend it anyhow? That is not the right
approach. “For me, the government should go back to the drawing board and slash INEC budget into half. And when you look at the budget that was presented, some of the money there is duplicated. For instance, what they are giving to the Police is already in the Police’ budget. They are going to buy vehicles, helicopter for the Nigeria Police; you are going to be feeding the Police; is that the work of an electoral agency? People should ask questions, what are they doing with so much money?” Situation not beyond redemption – ACF The General Secretary, Arewa Consultative Forum, Anthony Sani, said the issue might have been resolved. He said, “I have read that the budget for INEC is being resolved to enable INEC to start preparation for 2019 elections in earnest. It seems the problems stemmed from the fact that what INEC requires should be accommodated in the budget of 2018 and 2019, considering the fact that preparations for elections must start in 2018, and budget for 2019 has yet to be prepared and submitted to the NASS. “But now that both arms have agreed that all requirements by INEC be accommodated in a budget for 2018, I think the issue may have been resolved. As to the challenges of APC, as the ruling party, it is important to note the circumstance of the emergence of APC from political parties with different political tendencies for the express purpose of defeating PDP. And unlike PDP, which was formed in a similar circumstance to ease out the military, and without a clear agenda for governance, APC has an agenda but the commitment by those who formed the party. That is to say, the seminal figures of the groups, which formed APC have not keyed into the agenda and have not been committed to the manifesto of APC. Their preoccupation has been power and not governance. Hence the APC has been at war with itself. This has been the challenge.” Sani added, “But now that there are defections, I believe water is finding its level where politicians would join political parties of their choice with clear ideology and manifesto, which they can use and canvass for electoral mandate needed for governance. As a result, politics of issues may supplant the prevailing politics
of identity. “So, I believe the current development would result in a proper multiparty democracy where the leaders would know that the mandates are to political parties and not to the individual. Our politicians should know the import of why it used to be PDP government and the party was accountable. In the same way, this regime is called APC government and it is the party that will be held accountable to the electorate. The situation is, therefore, not beyond
redemption. On the allegation that the Federal Government wants to use the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to witch-hunt perceived opponents, the spokesperson of the agency, Wilson Uwugiaren, told The Point that “such an insinuation is far from the truth.” “I can tell you that there is nothing of such. Is EFCC a political party? How can someone say such a thing? We are not a tool of any political party, and there is no way such a thing will happen,”
he said. 