 A housewife, Darasi Martins, has been arrested by the police in Lagos for allegedly pouring hot water on her 16-year-old housemaid. The incident, which took the residents by surprise, occurred at 6, Olomowewe Street, Mushin, Lagos. Our correspondent gathered from a source that the suspect committed the offence after the victim allegedly stole two out of the six eggs she sent her to buy for the family. A resident of the area, Wale Lawal, told our correspondent that trouble started for the victim when her boss sent her an errand to buy her six eggs, but hid two of the eggs and presented only four. “The issue was on the two eggs, which the girl allegedly stole. She was sent six eggs and on her return, she presented four while two were missing. It was in the process that her madam dealt with her with the hot water that was being boiled. Residents invited the police from Alakara who arrested the woman.” Martins was arrested by the police for allegedly maltreating her housemaid by pouring hot water on her for stealing eggs. A social worker, Mr. Ebenezer M. Omejalile, confirmed to our correspondent that information gathered from residents had it that the suspect had long been in the habit of maltreating the victim. Omejalile said, “The woman have been abusing the girl for long, starving her, beating her and this time around, what really happened was that she sent the girl on an errand to buy her six eggs and the girl who was starving, hid two of the eggs and submitted the remaining four. So, the woman descended on her and poured hot water on her, from head to toe. “The police have done a good job by transferring the case to the JWC headquarters in Olosan Police Station and the victim was taken to the ministry of gender equality, child development and family welfare for the justice of the child.” The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Superintendent Chike Oti, said police had already concluded investigations on the matter, adding the suspect would be made to face the law soon. “The woman poured hot water on the child’s body from her face down to her stomach, to her private part. Police are done with the investigation and the case is already on its way to court, where the woman will face the law,” he said. 