The aviation sector in Nigeria and the businesses it accounts may drift into a state of coma unless urgent steps are taken to address the challenges bedeviling the sector. FRANCIS KADIRI reports Nigeria’s aviation sector may be drifting towards a collapse in spite of the expectations of the Federal Government that the recent upgrade and renovation of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos and Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja will address the various challenges bedeviling the sector. A survey conducted by our correspondent among representatives of 23 federal airport regions in Nigeria, including agencies of the aviation sector, private and public sector practitioners and the Nigerian Export Import (NEXIM) bank, reflects a consensus opinion that Nigerian airports have long been on their knees, ‘begging’ for effective policy and regulatory measures to be resuscitated. Stakeholders are of the view that, at a time nations are showcasing their respective international and local airports as monuments of national glory, Nigerian airports are in a state of shame, an anomaly which some aviation industry stakeholders said reflects the failure of regulatory agencies, infrastructure decay and the underdevelopment associated with projects when there is change in government. While 90 percent of the aviation industry stakeholders who admitted the safety and infrastructural challenges pleaded anonymity, claiming that government was already aware of the imminent collapse confronting the industry, government institutions insist that it is normal and that steps are being taken to avert any tragedy. A Nigerian financial consultant, on board a passenger flight to Lagos, Dr. Omolara Badejo, lamented the poor services and sad state of airports in the country but commended government for steps taken to improve services at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos. Badejo said “the best solution is to hand over the airports over private investors as was the case with Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos which is being managed by Bi-Courtney.” Badejo, who expressed disappointment over the inability of government to manage any of the nation’s airports, wondered why the Nigerian Government had been unable to take charge of the airports. “Can you point to any government-managed airport that can match Murtala Muhammed International Airport?,” she said, adding that “as a nation, Nigeria will continue to deceive itself if we think government can run any public utility effectively, especially when politics and quota considerations are part of our system.” The financial consultant maintained that “successful public utilities cannot run on the bureaucratic and fantastically corrupt system obtainable in Nigeria,” adding, “the current state of Murtala Mohammed International Airport Lagos leaves much to be desired.” According to Badejo, “The shortfalls are obvious right from when you arrive the airport, you will find that there are inadequate parking spaces, and you will continue to find the inadequacies all the way because passengers must join a long queues to purchase tickets and you find that there are irregularities all the way.” She maintained that passengers further experience delays at security checkpoints, adding that no passenger feels satisfied with the anomalies. “When you finally get to the airside, you may have to walk to the plane instead of being driven across, and if you survived the flight and arrive your destination, you are lucky if your bags are not dirty and if your luggage are not tampered with. I tell you, when your bags get to your destination, they are usually dirty, ”  she said. Another passenger, Lambert Agu, who arrived Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja via an Arik Air flight from the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos also lamented the services , describing it as ‘very poor’ when compared with services obtainable in other countries. According to the traveler who declined further questions, “it is crystal clear that government is not interested in developing the ports,” while he hurriedly suggested that “the target is to generate funds for 2019 election.” However, the Acting Regional General Manager (South West) of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Mrs Victoria Bamidele Shin-Aba, in an exclusive interview with THE POINT, distanced herself from the poor rating of services, safety and infrastructural status of airports in Nigeria, saying she does not belong to the school of thought that believes that Nigerian airports are deplorable. “I don’t share the notion that our airports are among the worst, but I agree that we have some challenges and we are already solving the problems,”  she said. Shin-Aba, who doubles as the General Manager, Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, said “the management of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria is trying very hard to ensure that the facilities are upgraded and refurbished as a way of ensuring safety and customer satisfaction.” She challenged our correspondent to verify her claim that “the airports in Lagos and Abuja have greatly improved since the commencement of the Buhari administration,” adding “as Manager of Murtala Muhammed Airport, I confirm to you that we have upgraded the facilities and we don’t have the problems people continue to complain of.” Shin-Aba, who admitted that other airports in the country are in bad shape, said the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria will upgrade them. “Government is committed, the management of FAAN is also committed to make sure that Nigerian airports meet global best standards,” she added. When asked about the ineffectiveness of aviation regulatory agencies, Shin-Aba de 