AYO ESAN The former Deputy National Chairman and Board of Trustee member of the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP), Chief Olabode George has called on the Inspector-General of Police, Ibrahim Idris and the Attorney-General of the Federation, Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN) to set up an impartial Special Investigation Panel to probe into the circumstances, the culprits and their sponsors that killed Apapa Local Government PDP Chairman, Prince Adeniyi Aborishade. Aborishade was murdered by unknown gunmen at Igbokusu in Lekki , Eti Osa Local Government Area of Lagos State during party’s visitation meeting on  July 26, 2018. Speaking at a press conference in Lagos on Monday, George described Aborishade as someone who would not hurt a fly, saying “he was always the consistent reconciliatory” and insisted that the killers must be fished out. “We live in a society of law and order. Justice is the first pivotal organ of all enlightened societies, once the state cannot protect anyone of us, whether big or small, there will be a gradual degeneration into the Hobbesian state of anarchy where life will be short and brutal”, he said. He said the Department of Public Prosecution has released the report which basically discharged all the suspects. He however said without prejudice to the DPP, “the report appears hurried, rash, untidy, deliberately skewed at a predetermined conclusion.” He said he agreed with the DPP that the police should continue their investigation to unearth the murder of Aborishade, “but the police in Lagos State Command are not the fit and proper organisation to carry out any conclusive, unbiased investigation in this issue”. George who used the occasion to launch a Memorial Trust Fund for Aborishade in order to ensure that his family will never be abandoned and for him not to die in vain, urged everybody to speak up for Aborishade. “Our silence will be terrible. We all now live in a global village. From vast Tundra of Russia to the plain in Serengeti, nothing could be hidden anymore .Everyone is now accountable to the court of international opinion. There are sanctions for all our actions “. George laments that “in a horrible coincidence, Aborishade was murdered exactly 12 years after Funso Williams was equally murdered on July 26, 2006 and his killers are still unknown but said they cannot hide forever.” He also asked all good men and women regardless of party affiliations to contribute to the Aborishade’s Trust Fund. 