A non-political group, Think West Initiative , has thrown its weight behind what it described as the transformation agenda of the Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, saying the governor has created a favourable investment climate that guarantees good returns on investment in the state. The expression of support for the All Progressives Congress – led administration of Obaseki is coming as both local and international investors now see Edo State as a beautiful bride. The group lauded the governor for ensuring transparency in government and putting infrastructural facilities in place to encourage business and social economic development of the state. It reasoned that the giant strides being experienced in the state are making life easy for the people, saying this had been made possible because Obaseki  has the mentality of leaders from the western and developed nations. Coordinators of the group, Don Etinosa Igiebor and Princess Asha Okojie, who spoke with The Point, said they have noted that the governor has a holistic plan for the state which some people can not see now. “With the background of the governor who schooled, trained and worked in reputable organisations abroad and in Nigeria, people need to be patient to see his plans for the state materialise. “Obaseki is the future and people must key into his ideology. He is taking his time to do the needful, to bring gradual transformation and change to the state. “Do you know that today, you can take about ten minutes to drive from Airport Road to Ekenwan Barracks on a motorable road? That was not possible before. “Some people do not appreciate the projects that are going on in the state, all they want is money. They do not see the vision and progress ahead. “If only they appreciate the governor’s knowledge, how he is trying to position Edo for the future. Let us try to think about the future, and not free lunch,” Igiebor, who is also the Chief Executive Officer of Imperial Bizzo, Benin City, explained. He continued:  “If you are committed to service, the money will come, we should strive to create Edo State that will be better for the future. “We like Obaseki’s ideology in terms of economic investment platforms and social responsibility, which are ideas from the West. People should think of how the western countries are successful. “In the political space, some politicians are complaining because he is not giving them money, forgetting that the state is embarking on projects that will be of immense benefits to everyone in the future, just like the technical schools he has pumped billions of naira into. “The people need to go to where he is working to really appreciate what he is doing for the state. “Think West Initiative believes the world is a global village and Obaseki should be encouraged with the vision to transform the state to an enviable standard in the comity of states. “We commend the Information Communication Technology, ICT hubs springing up in the state, that is the future of
education. “Instead of complaining why don’t you do what you can do to improve the system. We need someone like Obaseki who thinks West while building institutions to drive the
process.” On her part,  Okojie, a United Nations Economic and Social Council ambassador, who also doubles as the Edo State Ministry of Arts, Culture, Tourism and Diaspora Affairs, United States of America ambassador for Culture, said the Think West Initiative plans to mobilise Edo people in the diaspora to participate in
the social, economic, and democratic process as well as investment in the state. “We are going to create an enabling environment by enhancing what the government is doing. Not just bringing Edo (people) in the diaspora but facilitating trade delegation, medical mission and investment opportunities. “We are going to engage them through interactive discussions, motivating ideas and facilitating their meetings with the relevant commissioner and government officials in the state, to nurture the relationship so that they can come to the country to invest. “We have observed that those in the diaspora want to come back home to invest but they do not know the process and this is what Think West Initiative will be doing, to bring them together for a common purpose. “The purpose of the group, which is not affiliated to any political party, will be a bridge to the various political parties to work for social, economic and political development of the state,
” Okojie  said. 