…commends Awujale for raising standard of Ojude Oba festival The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress State Mobilisation Committee for Ogun State, Otunba Babatunde ONAKOYA, has called on the people of the state not to relent in their support for President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Ibikunle Amosun. Onakoya, who is also a member of the Board of the Benin Owena River Basin Development Authority, said this on Thursday during this year’s Ojude Oba Festival in Ijebu Ode, Ogun State While making a triumphal entry into the venue of the festival in company with thousands of his supporters dressed in branded T-shirts with the inscription  “Sai Buhari, Sai Baba” to pay the traditional homage to the Awujale and Paramount Ruler of Ijebuland, Oba Sikiru Adetona, the APC chieftain said it had become imperative for the people of the state to continue to rally round President Buhari and Governor Amosun to enable the two leaders to take them and all Nigerians to the Promised Land. According to him, although the Ojude Oba festival was not a political event, he and his supporters felt it was an auspicious occasion to showcase the achievements of both President Buhari and Governor Amosun. He told our reporter at the event, “It is now important for all Nigerians and all the people of Ogun State to continue to support President Muhammadu Buhari and our amiable Governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, if we want to get to the Promised Land. “We have all seen the monumental achievements of both leaders at the national and state levels and we must encourage them to continue to do more. “Although Ojude is not a political gathering, we deemed it fit to still use the opportunity to show appreciation to both the President and our Governor for all that they have been doing for all Nigerians at both the Federal and state
levels.” The APC chieftain, popularly called Debasco, also likened the annual Ojude Oba festival to Christmas celebrations in Rome, saying the event which attracts all Ijebus and even non-indigenes from across the country and the Diaspora, had gained global and international reputation and
recognition. He, therefore, commended the Paramount ruler of Ijebuland, Alaiyeluwa OBA Sikiru Kayode Adetona, for promoting the culture and heritage of his forebears by raising its standards in line with the best global practices. “Our royal father, the Awujale, has done so much these past decades to raise the standards of the organization and conduct of the Ojude to meet up with global standards. His achievements in this regard and so many other areas are highly commendable. May he live long to continue to take Ijebuland to greater heights,” Onakoya said. 