Recently, the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, ordered the overhaul of the Police anti-robbery outfit, Special Anti-Robbery Squad, popularly known by its acronym, SARS. The Presidential directive which came while Professor Osinbajo was the acting President was well received by all and sundry. Coming on the heels of intense public outcry over widespread allegations of human rights violations against the dreaded anti-robbery squad, the order handed down to the Inspector General of Police has long been overdue. Hardly does a day pass without reports of human rights violations varying from brutalisation, torture even extra-judicial murders, against SARS. Only recently, students in Iwo, Osun State, were on the streets protesting the dastardly murder of one of their own by a trigger happy cop. About a month ago, a female member just completing her National Service was sent to her early grave in another bizarre incident in Abuja. Needless to say that the Police authorities in the two cases acted promptly to apply sanctions. Newspapers are awash with reports of parents protesting the circumstances in which their wards lost their lives in questionable circumstances while in police custody. Global organisations such as the Amnesty International have often captured these orgy incidents to the detriment of our collective image. The Point therefore commends the Presidential directive, which we believe, was a step in the right direction. We also believe that the government is seeking a total overhaul of the anti-robbery organ and its replacement with a new outfit, which is highly professional and knowledge driven. We are also glad that, in a swift response by the police authorities, the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, dismantled the old structure in favour of a new one called FSARS headed by a Commissioner of Police. The emergency outfit, according to the Police authorities, would not be allowed to entertain civil and commercial matters, and would restrict itself to cases of armed robbery and kidnapping. Members of the corps would be carefully selected taking into consideration their previous human rights records. Speaking last Thursday on the progress made towards the overhaul of the outfit, IGR Idris said the reform was beyond rhetorics and the services of psychologists and councilors would be applied toward moulding characters of the members of the FSARS. He also announced the establishment of human rights desks in police formations in the 36 States of the federation to handle reports of human rights violations against the members of the Police Force in general and those of the FSARS in particular. The Point welcomes these initiatives by the Police authorities as we advise that all reported cases of Police brutality, human rights abuses, extra-judicial killings must be thoroughly investigated and the culprits brought to book. We also advise that every member of the new outfit must be thoroughly investigated viz-a-viz their past, including their criminal, human rights, or psychiatric records. Besides FSARS must be adequately manned, equipped and properly motivated, to meet the challenges of increasing sophistication of the underworld. Nevertheless, The Point is worried by reports of increasing  cases of huge Police casualties in encounter with armed robbers and kidnappers. We therefore call for a stop to this ugly trend if the society must continue to entrust the safety of their lives and property in  the Police. 