Nigerians will, tomorrow, join other Muslims all over the world to mark the Eid-el-Kabir festival following the earlier announcement by the Saudi authority that today is the 9th day of the Islamic lunar month of Dhul-Hijjah, the Day of Arafat,  which marks the climax of the Hajj rites. As we celebrate Sallah with friends and families, let us remember one of the lessons of the festival, which is complete obedience to the will of our Creator. Prophet Ibrahim (AS) was ready to sacrifice his son. But in a significant act of divine mercy, Allah provided a ram instead. This occasion is not only for merriment but for us all to reflect on the lessons of sacrifice and unity of purpose as we prepare for another general elections in our nation. We implore us to pray for our country and cooperate with the government to fight corruption, secure our communities, improve our economy and patronise made in Nigeria goods. The Point  believes that we can learn from the total submission of Prophet Ibrahim and his son, Ishmael; we should all be willing and ready to sacrifice for the good and progress of our nation. With our many challenges, now is the time to think differently and act with discipline and focus in order to progress as a nation. Following from humility of Ismael, our leaders and other influential personalities should learn to sheathe their swords and work for the good of all. There must be a stop to greediness, enough of selfish interests in their dealings. Those in position of power should always remember that they are in power on behalf of the people and should therefore work in the best interest of the people always, while the populace should also demand good governance and accountability all the time. The fact that Allah (SWT) showed up when it mattered most for both father and son is enough to encourage us as individuals, families and country. Upon all the difficulties we are presently going through, we should know that there will be light at the end of the tunnel. However, we should move away from using tribal and religious sentiments to cause chaos in our midst. As Muslim faithful all over the world celebrate this Sallah festival, it is our hope that they will remember all the citizens and our leaders at all levels, in their prayers. Diversity in religion is to beautify our plurality and allow every Nigerian the space and right to worship. As the Federal Government has declared tomorrow and Wednesday as public holidays to mark the Eid and celebrate the uncommon willingness of Prophet Ibrahim (AS) to sacrifice his only child in obedience to Allah, let us continue to value the love for sacrifice, obedience, patience, piety and indeed selflessness. In the spirit of the festive season, it is instructive for all Nigerians to reflect deeply on the true meaning and importance of sacrifice and patience. However, as the citizens are sacrificing and tolerating, those in government should know that we have no reason to be having insecurity, poor electricity supply, bad road networks, falling education standard, economic and health-based concerns. We pray for accident –free journeys as the citizens travel on our various bad roads during this period and beyond. The Sallah had its origin in the days of Prophet Ibrahim (Abraham) when he was called upon by God to sacrifice Ishmael, his only son at the time, for the Almighty. The request came in frequent visions and dreams. And Prophet Ibrahim (may Allah’s peace be upon him), being God-fearing, decided to obey Allah (AS). Hence, we implore our people to celebrate moderately as the celebration should be more of glorifying Allah’s name, rather than drinking alcohol and indulging in only feasting and merriment. This is the time to show love not only to friends and associates; but to poor neighbours and the needy. This period is about sharing, giving, and praying to God; respecting humanity, showing mercy and kindness to people. We therefore call on the Government of President Muhammadu Buhari to do more in terms of making life more bearable for the citizens as there are too many uncertainties in the land. We implore the government run an all-inclusive government based on the principle of freedom, social justice and fairness to all irrespective of religious, ethnic or gender considerations. We condemn the indiscriminate arrests and illegal detention of journalists as well as the ongoing move to criminalize the practice of journalism in the country. The Government must appreciate the role of journalists as the fourth estate of the realm in a democracy like Nigeria and should do nothing to muzzle the press. The impression being created in the international community  by recent developments in the country, especially the invasion of the National Assembly by a detachment of men of the Department of State Services and others, is that our democracy is in
danger. The recent indefinite closure of the United States Embassy in  Abuja  should serve as a warning to the Government. We therefore urge the Federal Government to work more to collaborate on initiatives that promote common good and cement relationships across all divide. The Point wishes all Islamic faithful Eid Mubarak, Barka de
Sallah. 