The political crisis in Benue State is fast assuming a worrisome dimension with the passing of each day. The unfolding events are a sad commentary for a state, which used to be the nation’s food basket. It is rather unfortunate that the state is fast assuming a new status as a basket of troubles. After being turned to a killing field by rampaging and marauding Fulani herdsmen, a political crisis has suddenly crept in to further compound the woes of the people.
With the State almost grounded to a halt by the power play among the political elite, the average Benue man and woman are the biggest losers. A case of the grass always suffering when two elephants fight! From the allegations and counter-allegations surrounding the killings, to the power-tussle among the political elite and the alleged frustrations that eventually led to the defection of the state Governor, Dr. Samuel Ortom, from the ruling All Progressives Congress to the Peoples Democratic Party. Also, an impeachment notice was recently served on the governor by eight minority lawmakers. As if that was not enough, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has suddenly closed-in against Ortom, accusing him of a N22bn
fraud. Though the Presidency has distanced President Muhammadu Buhari from the problems currently facing Ortom, many still believe that there are more to the embattled  governor’s problems than meets the ordinary eyes. A  statement by the presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, had exonerated the President from Ortom’s dilemma. “President Buhari will always stand by all that is noble and fair, and will reject attempts to drag him into infamy. People who stoke fires by deliberate acts of omission or commission, and then summon the President to come and
pit it out, will find that this President will be guided by the Constitution
at all times, no matter the attempts to entangle him in unwarranted controversies,” Adesina had said in a statement. The denial from the Presidency notwithstanding, the impression being created by unfolding developments is that Ortom is simply being ‘punished’ and ‘persecuted’ for daring to look the powers that be in the face and calling their bluff.
His trouble with his political godfather, Senator George Akume, is still fresh in the memory of observers of Benue politics, as Akume had allegedly boasted that Ortom should simply forget the 2019 governorship ticket for committing what has been described as political apostasy. The developments that followed the alleged declaration by Akume, especially the punches thrown at Ortom by the National Chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, over the Benue killings and the impeachment notice allegedly sponsored against the governor, are helping to fuel the suspicion on where the flaks may be coming from. Nobody needs any soothsayer to know that the problems, like others unfolding in many states, are all about 2019 elections. The Point, therefore, calls for caution in resolving the contending issues in order not to aggravate the already tense atmosphere in the state. We also condemn  the current situation where governance has been crippled and the main purpose for which political leadership is meant has been totally abandoned.
While the political elite in the state are busy protecting their interests, the Benue people are the worse for it.
A state that is generally acknowledged
as the nation’s food basket should
not be allowedto fully degenerate into  
a theatre of war.
Governance at every level should ordinarily be for the growth and development of the people, not for the pursuance of selfish and pecuniary
gains. 