 The police at the Onipanu Division in Lagos have arrested a 54-year-old man, Felix Irobuta, for allegedly defiling an 11-year-old girl. Our correspondent gathered that the suspect, who is a resident of Imagbon Street, Fadeyi, Lagos, had been having canal knowledge of the minor, who is a primary school student, for a long time before he was caught in the act. A resident of Fadeyi Street, Jibayo Babalola, explained that Felix initially denied committing the offence, but after his arrest and interrogation by policemen at the Onipanu Police Division, owned up. “Felix had turned the young girl to a sex machine. According to what I heard from people on his arrest, he usually had marathon sex with the girl whenever her parents were not around. On his last attempt with the girl, he had begged her not to inform her parents and even made some promises to her,“ he said. A social worker and Coordinator of Child Protection Network, Shomolu, Comrade Okanlawon Toyin, told our correspondent that “The suspect denied the allegation while the survivor said her pant was forcefully removed by Felix, who forcefully had sex with her. The defilement started when she was nine years (two years ago). The suspect has been having serial sex with her and turned her to a sex toy. The last time he had sex with her was on Monday 19th and 23rd of August, respectively.” Meanwhile, the victim, said Felix told her not to inform her mother about the marathon sex he usually had with her. She claimed the suspect always fondled her breasts and overpower her to have sex, when no one was around. Further findings by our correspondent also revealed that the victim had been taken to the Mirabel Center at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja, for medical investigation. Police sources also confirmed to our correspondent that the suspect had confessed to the crime upon a thorough interrogation. It was also revealed the case, after thorough investigation, was transferred to the Gender Unit of the Lagos State Police Command headquarters in
Ikeja. Meanwhile, the grandparents of the victim have demanded justice. They maintained that the defilement of their granddaughter by Felix was dehumanization, which he must be adequately
punished for. The Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, Superintendent Chike Oti, promised to get back to our correspondent after confirming from the division. But as at press time, he had yet to do so. 