The Point newspaper has reshuffled its editorial team and made new appointments in line with its commitment to media excellence. Top on the list of the new appointments is Hameed Oladele Olabisi, who is now the Executive Editor. He is to supervise the editorial activities and the Special Projects/Business drive of the organisation. Olabisi is an alumnus of the then University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University) where he bagged a Bachelor’s, as well as a Master’s degree in Business Administration. He also has varied professional qualifications in journalism, advertising, public relations and management consultancy from the constituted regulatory bodies in Nigeria. Prior to his current appointment, Olabisi was the Chief Executive Officer of Marketing Vessel Limited, a media marketing communications consulting firm in Lagos. He has also worked in notable media houses, including the then Sunday Times, National Concord and, lately, The Daily Trust. He also consulted for the Nation newspapers on special reports. A Centre for Management Development alumnus, Olabisi also lectured at the then Lagos Outreach of the University of Nigeria, Nzukka and the Paris Graduate School of Management in Ghana. He supervised many published academic projects in the two higher institutions Olaolu Olusina, a development journalist and general interest writer with over two decades of practical work experience, is the new Editor of The Point. He started his journalism career with the Cross River State Newspaper Corporation, publishers of Nigerian Chronicle, and  worked briefly with the Concord Newspapers before moving to Insider Weekly magazine. Olusina left   Insider Weekly to join The World Diplomat Magazine in Accra, Ghana, and played a key role in the publication of a special edition of The World Diplomat Magazine to mark the 50th Independence Anniversary of Ghana in 2005, as well as a special edition for the West African Monetary Institute (WAMI) on the proposed West African common currency. He also anchored a weekly column, Odyssey, a column for Nigerian professionals abroad, for The SUN newspapers, while in
Ghana. Olusina returned to Nigeria in July 2007 and joined the News Desk of THISDAY Newspapers in Lagos, and rose to become the Deputy Group News Editor of the paper. He also handled the popular special investigative weekly report, The Sunday Report, for THISDAY ’s The SundayNewspaper before leaving for The UNION, where he edited both the Saturday and Sunday editions of the paper, as the Weekend Editor. Olusina, a multi-dimensional and versatile writer, also wrote for the renowned U.S based Lube Report (www.lubereport.com) and Lubes ‘N’ Greases Middle East Africa magazine  as a Contributing Editor, covering special assignments for the magazine in East, West and Southern Africa, including country reports on the lubricants industry in Nigeria, Kenya and Botswana. Olusina also contributed to the South Africa-based on-line publication, HOW WE MADE IT IN
AFRICA . Olusina, a full member of the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE), attended the University of Ibadan, Nigerian Institute of Journalism and the School of Media and Communication (SMC) of the Pan Atlantic University (PAU), Lagos. The former Acting-Editor of the newspaper, Segun Olatunji, is now an Associate Editor. Olatunji,  has had over 20 years experience in journalism. He began his career with The Punch and later moved to The Post Express , Rhythm 94.7FM (Abuja) and the New Age newspaper. He returned to The Punch in 2005 and worked as its Chief Correspondent in Abuja,  Kaduna and Abeokuta until 2014. Olatunji also worked as Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to Dr. Abisola Sodipo-Clark, who contested the Ogun Central Senatorial District seat in the 2015 general elections. He later moved to The Sun as its Chief Correspondent in Ogun
State. He has also freelanced for both XINHUA, China State News Agency, and the Associated Press (AP). Olatunji  joined The Point newspaper in June 2016 as Deputy Editor and became the Acting Editor of the paper in
2017. He holds a Bachelor degree in History and Political Science as well as  Master degrees in Mass Communication, International Affairs and Strategic Studies. ‘Niyi Okiri is coming on board as the Production Editor of the newspaper with over 35 years experience as a journalist, starting from the New Nigerian Newspapers in Kaduna; The Mail, The Post Express, BusinessDay, The Sun Publishing, National Mirror, and Daily Times in Lagos. He went through the mill, working as Proof Reader, sub-editor/Assistant Sports Editor, Acting Foreign Editor, Chief Sub-Editor/Food & Nutrition Editor, and Production Editor. Okiri is a graduate of the Kaduna Polytechnic, Kaduna and the Nigerian Institute of Journalism, Lagos. Sekinah Lawal is now the On-line Editor of The Point newspaper. A University of Lagos Mass Communications product, where she also had a Masters degree in Managerial Psychology, she has worked in many newspaper houses, including the National Interest, as Health Editor, and an Assistant Editor with the National Mirror. She is also the current Chairperson, Nigerian Association of Women Journalists, Lagos State chapter. Lawal also has a Postgraduate Diploma in Advanced Journalism and Editing, as well as On-line and Digital Journalism, both at the School of Media and Communication (SMC), of the prestigious Pan Atlantic University, Lekki, Lagos. As a passionate journalist of over two decades with so many awards to her feathers, she has, over the years, attended quite a number of courses both home and abroad. 