Gordons is one of Nigeria’s biggest comedians. In this interview with OSEYIZA OOGBODO, the humour merchant speaks about the comedy industry and sundry issues. Excerpts: What are your plans for this year? Well, I have a tour. I have to be done with the tour first. Yes, I have an American tour from April 27 to May 27. I also have three cities in the UK I’m doing. So, when I’m done with all of those tours, then I can know what to do in Naija. I should be doing my own show here, but I want to go round with my tour first. How are you managing to stay relevant in the game with all the new comedians coming up? Well, everybody’s got their space, you know. You’re new, you’re old, so long as you know what you’re doing, I believe you have your space. Yeah, new boys are coming up, but sometimes, even that we are the old hands, we are not threatened, because these new boys still depend on our materials to fly. So, we just try our best to stay afloat. So, what’s your view on the lingering issue of comedians ‘stealing’ each other’s jokes? It’s crazy. I don’t think it’s the best for our industry. If you’re an upcoming comedian, you can be forgiven. But once you’ve grown old in the game, you should not be doing that any more, you understand? But well, for everyone who’s coming up, you depend on people to be able to get to where you’re going. But again, once you stay there for too long, that’s what I find problem with. What are the innovations and the laws you think should be introduced into the comedy industry to make it better? Well, what I think is that there should be a regulatory body. A regulatory body will be able to control everything that we do. That way, you know you can’t take someone’s joke without a proper acknowledgement. But right now, we don’t have a regulatory body. That’s the issue now.   Can you tell us how many people you’ve personally introduced into the industry? Well, I’ve not introduced many, but I have a lot of ‘sons.’ There are people who I mentor from afar, right? I’ve tried to do that this year, to see if there’s a way I can open an academy for younger people, who want to come in. Now, there’s an issue in the entertainment industry in Nigeria. Many of the artistes are popular, but they are not that financially successful… (Cuts in) Yeah. What’s the case with you, financially? How rich are you? It depends on what you call rich. Are you a millionaire? I’m comfortable. I can’t tell you I’m a millionaire, but I’m comfortable. OK, but in the industry generally now, they say many people are just popular, and when they fall sick and all that, that’s when you really get to know that they are not financially strong. Why is it like that in the entertainment industry in Nigeria? No one prays to fall sick. But if you’re ill, and you need help, don’t hesitate to speak out. One thing you should know is that money comes, money goes; that’s why it’s called currency, it flows. Not everybody has the intelligence to multiply money or to save money. Some people believe that as money comes, you do this with it, as money comes, you do that with it. But there can be a time you’ve done everything you know how to do with money, probably you’ve built a house, or you buy a car, and with the kind of show we do, sometimes cash flows, sometimes it slows. And if your sickness comes, when you don’t have the cash, what do you do? And sometimes, you sell property and you still need more, cry out. That’s what I feel, because life is better, you know, that’s how I see it. Your jokes are constructive. You take impossible angles and make comedy out of them. How do you get inspired? It’s not the funny road to go. Well, because some people don’t find it funny. But the truth of the matter is I have to stay true to my game, alright? Well, because I don’t like it when there’s mediocrity in any game. Every time I come on stage, I try to stay fresh, you know. We’ve moved from being comedians to social commentators. There are ills which we experience in the society, which we make jokes around. That’s what I do. A lot of people don’t find it funny, but what else can I do? I have to be me, because when you begin to sound like someone else, you lose market. So, I have to do what I have to do. What’s your take on the N36million said to have been swallowed by a snake and N70million carted away by a monkey? That’s the biggest scam I’ve ever heard in my life. All I know is that money is not vegetable; animals don’t eat it. And your children? Are they taking after you? I wish so. But my children have their own lives to live. If they want to go my way, that’s fine. But for me, I’ll pray that God gives them another way, because my job is not funny. Believe me it’s not. What’s your biggest challenge as a comedian? How you’ll be able to balance family and stage. The family needs the money, and you need the fans. And your job demands that you’re always away from the family. It’s hell, but, we live in a country where you don’t have social security, nobody’s going to give you money or something like that. You have to work. And for me that likes to work, scriptures say a man that’ll not work, should not eat. I like to work. And so, I miss my family, and it’s very challenging, because when I was growing up, my dream was to be with my family. But here I am, doing a job that takes me away from my family. It’s so risky. You don’t want to know, what we go through. Sometimes we’re very depressed, but there’s nothing we can do about it, because nobody’s going to help you, if you’re not working. 