A member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Tony Nwulu, has advanced reasons for the recent passage of a vote of no confidence on the Minister of Solid Minerals, Kayode Fayemi. Nwulu said that the minister had “skeleton in his cupboard.” The House had said on Thursday that its decision to pass a vote of no confidence on Fayemi was due to the failure of the minister and the Minister of State, Hon. Bawa Bwari, to honour its invitation for a public hearing on the Ajaokuta steel complex. Nwulu, who represents Oshodi Isolo II Federal Constituency of Lagos State, said in a chat with our correspondent that Fayemi’s action was tantamount to gross disrespect for the legislative arm. The lawmaker disclosed that information available to the House members revealed that “Fayemi has something to hide.” He said, “On Ajaokuta steel, the information is that the minister refused to acknowledge our letter and asked the permanent secretary to acknowledge it. He was given enough notice and yet he refused to appear. Some other people appeared and the information they gave us is very damaging.   “They said they were trying to re-concession the Ajaokuta steel complex, which is not really the problem. But the same people, who ripped the place off, are the same people who are coming through the back door and they have already drawn up an agreement to check the place. “Now, this public hearing we are asking him to come for, we expected him to come and clear the air, but he refused. So, he was not interested in what we have seen, that he is not interested in the development of the country and the Ajaokuta steel complex that leads to manufacture of steel and provides millions of job.” Nwulu added, “So, for him to completely refuse is surprising and this is a man who says when he leaves the Executive arm, he is planning to go to the Senate. So, the House is very disappointed in him. The house felt he was not interested in the development of the country and above all; he has complete disrespect for the legislative arm of government. “As you can see, it was moved by the Leader of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, an APC member, but this has nothing to do with the party.  It is in the interest of the country. How do we move the country forward? How do we get Ajaokuta steel working? Do we concession it or do we give it to the private sector? Do they sell it or manage it? All these are the things we wanted to hear from him so that we could come up with a decision. And from what we heard, he even tried to prevent people from
coming to give evidence. So, he has something he is hiding.” 