Information, Communication and Technology, otherwise known as the ICT, and particularly the Internet, is arguably the single most important breakthrough in communication in the last century. According to Internet Live Stats, a website that tracks live information technology statistics, every 10 seconds, the world sends nearly 25 million e-mails, makes 540, 000 searches and views 1.2 million videos through the most popular search engine and
video site.
In fact, more than any communication tool in history, the Internet, with its real time information, live entertainment and instant connectivity, has revolutionised our cosial, economic, cultural, educational, and political life.
Information available indicates that in 1995, less than one per cent of the world’s population had an Internet connection. But, today, about 40 per cent, which is some 3.4 billion people in the world use the Internet. Only last year, a study found that mobile Internet generated around US$700 billion a year in revenue in the 13 countries that make up about 70 per cent of global GDP. This is projected to grow to US$1.55 trillion by 2019. The study also indicates that mobile Internet created employment for about 3 million people in those 13
countries.
In today’s world, the competitiveness of all economies whether in the developed or in the developing world depends largely on the capability of people in each of the economies to harness the Internet’s potential. Information technology not only drives growth of the digital economy, but also has catalytic effect on innovation. This is why in today’s world most successful enterprises are beneficiaries of innovation and technology. This is
why supply chain technologies that improve productivity and product quality, or online sales that transform the buying experience of consumers ride on the back of the
internet.
Realising the power of the Internet to catalyse economic growth, some countries are allowing ICT to be at the heart of their development efforts. For example, innovation and technology have taken centre stage in China’s 13th Five-Year national development Plan. In the development plan China is encouraging “mass entrepreneurship and innovation” in consumption, manufacturing processes, industries, investment, funding and many other aspects. Indeed, the strategic policies “Internet Plus” and “Made in China 2025” are underpinned by innovation.
The import of my citing the example of China extensively is for us in Nigeria to see how other countries have been able to ride on the back of ICT to achieve rapid development. It is also for our planners and those in governance to see how this country can copy good examples from other lands. In Nigeria, just as in many other countries some 30 years ago, there was
nothing like mobile phones and to talk to anybody in other countries, you had to go to the Nigerian External Communications (NET) office at Marina, Lagos to queue up for hours waiting for your turn. Today, things have changed. With the return to democratic governance in 1999, the government embraced mobile system of communications and today, telephone which use to be a commodity for the rich is now for everybody who can afford
it.
According to the NCC, in Nigeria, teledensity was 99.93 as at September, 2017, active mobile subscriber base was 139,905,213 million as at September, 2017; Internet penetration rate was 50% (92.975,682 million subscribers)as at September, 2017, while broadband penetration rate was 21% as at February,
2017. 