 The Ogun State Police Commissioner, Mr. Ahmed Iliyasu, has ordered the transfer of the two teachers arrested on Wednesday for allegedly gang-raping a six-year-old pupil inside the toilet at a private school, Peaklane, in the Akute area of the state to the Criminal Investigation Department at the Command Headquarters, Eleweran, Abeokuta. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this to our correspondent on Thursday while confirming the incident. The Point had exclusively reported the alleged gang-raping of the 6-year-old pupil by the two suspected teachers on Wednesday. The police in Ajuwon had arrested the two suspected teachers simply identified as Mr. Leke and Anyawu, over the gang-rape of the pupil. Our correspondent gathered that the matter, however, also degenerated into an alleged physical assault of the victim’s father, Mr. Afolabi Oluwadunke, by the school's owners and other teachers, when he went to the school with some police officers to arrest the suspects. According to findings, trouble began when the victim’s mother went to pick her from the school after closing and noticed that her child's mood was unusual. After much persuasion by her mother when they got back home, the minor opened up, telling her that she was molested by two of her teachers. The six-year-old allegedly explained that the two male teachers accosted her in the toilet and forcibly had carnal knowledge of her. Following the disclosure, the victim’s mother took her to Mirabel Centre Ikeja, where medical tests confirmed the sexual assault of the little girl. According to a staff of the centre, who didn’t want name mentioned, “The test confirmed that the minor had been molested." The father of the victim also told our correspondent that the test showed that there were attempts to penetrate the girl, as there were bruises around her vagina. He said, “The test report at Mirabel Centre confirmed that my daughter was sexually abused. The test result showed that there was an attempt of penetration on her vagina. “When I went to the school with policemen from Ajuwon Police Division, the school owner shielded the suspects from arrest. While we were still demanding that she should provide the teachers who abused my daughter, one of the teachers came and started fighting me. The teacher locked my shirt around my neck. It was a serious fight, but the police separated us. “The school proprietress, Mrs. Ifeyinwa Nwachukwu, now told me that my daughter was possessed and that I should come with her for deliverance”. The mother of the victim, Mrs. Sola Afolabi, said she had not been herself since the incident. She also alleged getting series of threats from the school proprietress, Mrs. Ifeyinwa, and her husband. “The school proprietress had called me several times and scolded me. She said my daughter was possessed and our family enmeshed in poverty; that is why we are dragging down her school.” Our correspondent also gathered that the development had led to apprehension among other the parents that have their children in the school. A resident of Akute, Afolake Daramola, said, “The case is already known by all of us in this area. And it was reported at Ajuwon Police Station. Already, parents are scared of the situation. My neighbour, whose daughter is in the primary section of the school, told us that she heard the case on Monday and she's wondering if she will not take her child out of the school since the students are not safe there.” When contacted, the Proprietress of Peaklane Schools, Mrs. Ifeyinwa Nwachukwu, told our correspondent on the phone, “The case is an allegation; I will appreciate you come to my office for details on it.” But the state police spokesman told our correspondent that the Ogun police boss had ordered the transfer of the case of the two suspected teachers to the State CID at Eleweran for further investigation of the matter. Oyeyemi, an assistant superintendent of police, said in a telephone chat with our correspondent, "Yes I have confirmed the case, it is true and the commissioner of police has asked for it to be transferred to state CID this morning for further investigation." 