Ahead of the governorship primary election of All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State, a pressure group within the party-Ekiti Newbreed Politicians Association, has endorsed the candidature of Engnr. Kayode Ojo.
The group, in a statement by its coordinator, Prince Oyelere Ogunrogba, said that having conducted a two-month-long assessment of all contestants in the party, Ojo came out tops as “the only aspirant that has come without a baggage.”
The ENPA, composed mostly by the young elite of the party, said it had no choice but to give only Ojo a clean bill of health, “because as a young man of 48, he is controlling big construction companies that he built up through dints of hard-work and ingenuity.”
“Apart from that, he is internationally connected to bring foreign investors to develop the latent, abandoned and forsaken natural resources that abound in Ekiti, and then transform them to wealth through mass employment and improvement on Ekiti’s contribution to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product, GDP.
“Still, we see Ojo as the ideal politician needed for this time, as he is a complete gentleman, whose late father was a renowned industrialist, disciplinarian and philanthropist, and he too has imbibed those virtues in a far more commendable fashion.
“Ojo, above all, is the only aspirant that has come without a baggage from the list of over 60 governorship aspirants that we have scrutinised. He is decent, clean, honest and has nothing hidden or shady whatsoever,” the group disclosed.
The ENPA, as a result, said should the leadership of the APC use its index to determine those to push forward in the coming governorship primary of the party, it was confident that Ojo would come tops.
The group, which commended the pack of party delegates in Ekiti APC as “highly intelligent, educated and forthright leaders”, said it was confident that they would all vote according to their conscience at the coming primary election, “knowing that what is at stake is the overall growth of our dear state, Ekiti.” 