The Governor of Ekiti State, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, who recently bagged a Silverbird Television award of ‘Man of the People’, was put on the spot for a breath-taking interview session. An elated Fayose, whose tenure as governor will end on October 16, this year, spoke with ADELEKE ADESANYA, shortly after the bestowal. He dwelled on issues ranging from his tiff with the All Progressives Congress administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, to local discontents in his Ekiti home-state. Excerpts:  With virtually eight months for your administration to go, what do we look forward to, in the remaining months? I appreciate my people at home for their support. I thank you for giving me the opportunity to serve you. We are not done yet with the infrastructural development of Ekiti State. I am taking streetlight to Adebayo area of Ado-Ekiti soonest. The health rangers’ programme too is continuous. They are on two weeks’ break; they will continue afterwards. I will work till the day I am handing over to Prof. Kolapo Olusola (the Deputy Governor) by the grace of God. Opponents believe you did not deserve the recent ‘Man of the People’ award bestowed on you by Silverbird. So what’s your response? If my government is of the Lord, it will stand the test of time. I received the Silverbird “Man of the People” award in honour of the organisation. I have come first in many spheres of life, I dedicate the award to my wife and the good people of Ekiti. I accepted the award because it was necessary, and those waiting for my downfall will wait in vain.    The Ekiti chapter of the APC is insisting that you should not be given the federal road projects’ N11 billion refund, that you would squander it… (Cuts in) There is nothing progressive about the APC; they are in the real sense, retrogressive. It is reckless for the former finance commissioner under Fayemi to charge Ekiti government to court that it should not be given the N11 billion refund. They are doing a disservice to the Ekiti people but we thank God that the court has turned them down. The court in Abeokuta (Ogun State) said it lacked jurisdiction over the matter. So have you now got the N11 billion refund? I have not gotten the N11 billion refund but I tell you, if I get it today, it will be used to offset the salaries being owed workers. The APC listed its achievements to include fighting corruption and ending insurgency. What is your take on this? APC has spent over N3 trillion on Boko Haram and insurgency; now, they want to take another $1bn from the excess crude account. Transparency International has said the Buhari administration is very corrupt, that is why the N3 trillion is not translating into victory over Boko Haram. President Buhari promised Nigerians that he would bring back the missing Chibok Girls and defeat Boko Haram within three months. After more than 32 months in office, Boko Haram is still killing Nigerians, while the herdsmen are also on a killing spree. Painfully, the same Boko Haram they claimed to have defeated suddenly became strong enough to kidnap over 100 school girls in Dapchi, Yobe State. This is unacceptable. But the Council of States had given the President the go-ahead to appropriate the $1bn… I am in court already; that money belongs to us all. The Federal Government alone can’t have it to itself. We need our share of the money. They might hate Ekiti because I am telling the FG the truth but God will change this government and give peace unto Nigerians. There is some disquiet in the state over a recent demolition of buildings by the state government. Some people feel they are politically motivated… The demolitions in some areas of the state are necessary so our state can have a facelift.  Those affected should not be offended; it is for the good of the society.  I have just demolished the house of Anishulowo’s mother against his wish (Dapo Anishulowo resigned recently as Fayose’s Chief of staff). All affected should please forgive me; it is in the Ekiti interest. How about the controversial demolition of other buildings said to be on waterways? The weather forecast for this year is not favourable, The rains are coming with heavy winds. I was at Abe Cocoa area of Ado-Ekiti recently and found that a pastor sold waterways as plots of land to unsuspecting citizens. I am not going to wait till those people are killed by flood. All buildings on waterways must give way. But some say it is a land-grabbing tactics, aimed at re-allocating the lands to people in your government… I am not taking anybody’s land. The truth is that there are some buildings that are very old and are already at the verge of collapse. Government has to demolish such buildings to avert collapse and thus save human lives. So we believe it is just and proper that ‘tired buildings’ in the state have to give way for modern structures. Some people are of the opinion that the ongoing staff audit in the state is a ploy to sack workers. Is this the case? The Federal Government wanted states to do staff auditing as part of the condition to qualify the states for budget support. We did staff audit at the beginning of this administration and we were satisfied with it. I don’t have the intention of sacking anybody; what we are doing is headcount. If anybody asks you to bring certificates for verification, that person is not from me. How responsive is the state government to the protracted strike by workers of the Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti? The EKSU strike is regrettable but I urge them to show understanding. I always table all accruals before the leadership of the workers. I have been very transparent from
Day One. How are you handling the crisis in the Ekiti State PDP over your adoption of the Deputy Governor as the party’s governorship candidate? I support the peace process embarked upon by the leadership of the PDP. I also appeal to the other aspirants not to be offended by my support for Prof. Kolapo Olusola (the deputy governor). I don’t want to be a hypocrite; that was why I didn’t wait till the die-minute before making my stand known. Besides, as an individual, I have the right to support whoever I deem fit; that does not take anything away from the contestant’s quality. You’re known for celebrating the state’s women annually. So how are you going about it this year? Women will be celebrated again this year in a grand style; all is set for  a N20,000 for 10,000 Ekiti women largesse, which I promised them. Each of the recipients will get the bank alert for the money, before March 8, which is the World Women’s
Day. 