Apparently worried by the poor living condition of some residents of Lagos State, a civil rights and support group has come to the aid of the people of Igbalu community in Imota, Ikorodu area of the  state.
Towards. this end, the support group, His Marvellous Grace, embarked on sensitising parents, especially mothers, on the need to live a healthy life to avert contracting diseases.
During the programme, held to commemorate the International Women’s Day, the group provided the residents free medical services aimed at combating various illnesses.
A member of the group, Mrs Abimbola Olore, said living a healthy life was imperative and crucial to human existence.
Olore said such healthy living would create an environment, which would culminate in the overall development of the community.
She said, “Mothers should endeavour to live well. We are focusing our attention on women, especially mothers, because if you educate, sensitise or train a woman, you are training a whole nation.
“That is why we want our mothers to equip themselves with the knowledge of this sensitisation on good living so that they will be able to reach out to their children, and by doing so, we shall all have a healthy people and community.”
Also speaking, the Visioner of the Foundation, Mrs. Oluwadamisi Tayo Ladega, in her remarks, enjoined the people to take their health more seriously than their work.
She noted that many mothers, especially those who shouldered the responsibility of providing for their family, compromised their health because of their work.
Ladega said women in such position paid less attention to their health, adding that many of them usually fell victims to stroke and cardiac arrest.
She said, “Many of our mothers don’t pay attention to their health, especially the ones who are breadwinners in their homes.
“They prioritise work above their well-being and this is very wrong. A healthy mother is a healthy nation. Many of our women have died young because they failed to consider their health conditions.
“Many don’t go for medical checkup and when sickness hits them, we start running up and down. Prevention is better than cure.”
A counsellor from the Local Government Education Authority, Mrs. Oni Odunola, said, “Apart from going for checkup, keeping our environment clean is very important. Many women are dirty in their homes and surroundings; they only appear to be clean when they dress for occasions. This is not good. What we do is what our children will learn from us. It is better we do the right thing to create a great nation,” she said.
A social worker, Mrs Bukola Hassan, enjoined women to go for HIV test to know their status.
She said early detection would save anyone who tested positive and measures would be taken to prevent mother-to-child transmission of the virus.
The headteacher of UNA school, Igbalu, Imota, Mrs. Unueme, also charged the residents on the need to live a healthy life.
“I want to use this medium to urge our mothers to go for HIV test. This will go a long way to save their lives, if they test positive,” she said. 