The residents of Magbagbeola Street, Oke-Ira Nla in the Ajah area of Lagos are still at a loss over a recent strange occurrence that has also left many of them wondering what has gone wrong with the society. Although it is unthinkable that a father could rape his four-year-old biological daughter, that is the unbelievable situation that the people in this area are still trying to grapple with. The incident is discussed in hushed tones among the people in the area. But this is for real! It is even more surprising when the mother of the young victim, who should have raised the alarm over her husband’s strange and abominable behaviour, allegedly rather continues to strive to cover up his heinous crime against their very young daughter. Already, the shameless father, Mr. Taiwo Opashina, has been arrested for allegedly raping his own four-year-old daughter. Our correspondent gathered that Opashina, a carpenter, who lives at Magbagbeola Street, Oke-Ira Nla, Ajah area of Lagos, had allegedly been having carnal knowledge of his daughter (names withheld) for over a month, while his wife allegedly shielded him from being exposed. It was learnt that following the alleged sexual assault on the girl by her father, the four-year-old, who is a Kindergarten 2 pupil, started having uncontrollable discharges from her vagina. Our correspondent learnt that the minor, who had now become depressed, now passes out urine on herself, at least, three times daily while in class. According to a social worker and child rights activist, Mrs. Mary-Anne Adegoke, the girl’s class teacher, who raised the alarm, revealed that the suspect (the girl’s father) forcibly penetrated her vagina. Adegoke said investigations also revealed that the girl’s mother, Mrs. Comfort Taiwo, was aware of the alleged defilement of their daughter by her husband, but attempted to cover up the case. Our correspondent gathered that when the school authority contacted the girl’s mother over the incident, she reluctantly confirmed the allegation against her husband. Medical result of the test carried out on the girl confirmed that she was sexually violated.   The victim’s mother, who is a cleaner at the school, our correspondent gathered, had decided to keep the matter a top secret. She was said to have confided in her pastor, who mediated in the matter, saying that the issue was a family affair, which should not be exposed. When our correspondent contacted the victim’s class teacher, who did not want her name mentioned, she said, “I noticed that the girl, unlike her normal self, was now unusually quiet. She would just sit down alone and would not talk. I also noticed that flies were always coming around. “When I moved closed to her, I found out that she had urinated on her body. I scolded her for that. And this is a girl that used to tell me whenever she wanted to pee. It happened the first, second and third time, and I was really mad at her. And now, she urinates on herself like up to four times in a day. “So I called her and asked why she could not tell me whenever she wanted to urinate and she said her father used to put her buttocks on his own laps. Of course, I understood what that meant. So, I notified the proprietress and we invited her mother. “When we told her what her daughter said, she admitted. She said she had been giving her drugs and that we should, please, not expose her husband and family. She said her pastor had intervened in the matter and that she would not want to be sent out of her marriage.” Corroborating, the proprietress, who also did not want her identity and the name of her school published, said, “It is a very sad incident. I cannot imagine how a father would be sleeping with his four-year-old daughter when he has a wife. I mean, such a man should be seriously punished. He just wants to destroy the life of that girl. “At the moment, he has been arrested by the Langbasa Police Station. And I must commend the efforts of Mrs. Adegoke, the social worker, for her contribution towards the arrest of the man.” Recalling how the suspect was arrested, Adegoke said, “We called him (the suspect) that we had a job for him and we asked him to come and meet us at a particular place. When he assured us that he was coming, we quickly informed the Langbasa Police Station and three officers were asked to come with us. So, he was arrested when
he came.” Adegoke also alleged that a brother to the suspect had since been threatening her life, following the suspect’s arrest. The suspect has been taken to the Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, Yaba, Lagos, for further investigation, while the victim is now in the custody of the Lagos State Ministry of Youth and Social Development. The victim’s mother could not be reached by our correspondent as her mobile line was switched off. When contacted, Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, Chike Oti, confirmed the case, adding that justice would be done. “The case has been reported at the Command. The suspect will be charged to court for prosecution,” he said. 