Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has stated that President Muhammadu Buhari’s proposed visit to the state may be aimed at reviving the fortunes of the All Progressive Congress that is dead in the state. He said this during the flag off the reconstruction of Egbelu Street and construction of link roads in East-West in Rumuodara, Obio Akpor Local Government Area on Thursday.He said that the Federal Government is yet to inform him on the President’s visit and the reason behind his visit​. He said: “I hear they say that the President is coming to our state. I have not been told the President is coming and why he is coming. He has the right to come to any state. “Maybe the President is coming to make sure that he will improve the fortunes of the APC that is dead in Rivers State. “Apart from Jesus Christ, we don’t know of anyone who has risen a dead thing. APC is a dead party in Rivers State. No matter how you fast and pray, it will never wake up”. Governor Wike charged Rivers people not to be bothered by the politics or otherwise of the visit, because the state is very peaceful. “Let nobody bother him or herself that the President is coming for security reasons. We don’t have security challenges in the state. “We have never had herdsmen killings or crisis in the state except when some criminals tried to disrupt the peace and they were checked. We resolved that challenge.” The governor stated that there is no state in the country where kidnappers and armed robbers are not operating. He said if President Muhammadu Buhari is visiting because of ​k​idnappers and ​armed ​r​obbers, then he should visit all the 36 states. Wike​, however, noted that as the state’
that produces the wealth that supports the country, President is welcome to visit the wealth producers of the nation. According to him: “Since the administration has abandoned Rivers State for three years, this visit may be a blessing in disguise. ”​The President may use the visit to complete the Port Harcourt International Airport, the neglected East West road, the neglected sea ports and the rejected Port Harcourt-Aba road”. 