A socio-political group in Lagos, under the aegis of the All Progressives Congress, has said the former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, will surmount his ordeals within the party. The group, while showering encomiums on Tinubu, the APC National Leader, following “his achievements and contributions to youth development in the country”, said it was confident that Tinubu would bring about the needed transformation of the party. The group, Igba Laani Youth Initiative, which stated this at an event to commemorate the Lagos state governor, Mr. Akinwumi Ambode’s Cleaner Lagos Initiative, said Tinubu was a dogged fighter and astute politician who had positively impacted the lives of youths in the state and the country at large. Speaking on the occasion, a leader of the group, Hon. Wuraola Williams, said the APC national leader contributed not only to the youths’ development but also to the country’s political history, especially in the present democratic dispensation. She added that Tinubu’s political achievements and impact to humanity would not be forgotten in the annals of the country’s history. “Tinubu is a great leader to the state and Nigeria in general. His contributions to humanity and to the political development of our country, especially from 1999 till date, cannot be forgotten. “Asiwaju, our leader, is a dogged political fighter who stands for the rights of the people, by advocating total dividends of democracy.” On reports that some APC leaders had outplayed Tinubu, Williams said, “Asiwaju is a politician that knows how to play his cards. He has the knowledge to surmount every challenge before him. And on the peace move before him, he has the intellect to reposition the party for good, ahead of 2019.” In his remarks, another leader, Alhaji Idowu Yusuf, while commending Tinubu, charged members of the public to ensure that they get registered by the Independent National Electoral Commission in order to be eligible to vote in the 2019 polls. He said eligible voters should endeavor to collect their Permanent Voter Card after they must have been captured by the INEC, to vote in the elections. 