…says it will become a breeding ground for Eagles’ players • Hamafyelto, Rasheed hail project Former Gombe State Football Association Chairman and current Technical Consultant to Higher Institutions Football League, Alhaji Ahmed Shuaibu Gara-Gombe, has assured the Nigeria Football Federation and soccer fans of the success of the project, which many analysts see as the next ‘Big Deal’ that will impact positively on the country’s football development. Speaking exclusively to The Point, the CEO of Green White Green Sports Centre said the HiFL project has the capacity to reposition Nigerian football and produce future Super Eagles stars from higher institutions with good mental strength required for modern-day footballers to excel in their chosen career. Speaking on the initiative, Gara-Gombe said the need to go back to schools and higher institutions for the discovery of future football stars have become necessary in order to move Nigerian football forward. “Over the years, our universities have remained a powerhouse of talent discovery because most of our talented sportsmen and women reside there. Also, in every part of the world, sport administrators are aware of this fact and place so much emphasis on talent discovery from higher institutions; so I feel our sport administrators should take a cue from the HiFL project, which will kick off soon in Nigeria. “Our major aim of going into the HiFL project is to see how we can use it to help discover good talents and supply mentally strong footballers to our various national teams because they are great assets. Even after an illustrious football career, an educated player can easily fall back on his educational achievement to withstand the challenges of life. “We also want to assist in returning the lost glory of sport in our various campuses. You can see that not much is happening in our various universities and tertiary institutions in Nigeria in terms of sport development. So, with the coming of HiFL we shall have a busy sporting calendar in our higher institutions and thereby producing great educated players. “In the HiFL project, the winning team will automatically be sponsored to represent Nigeria in the next FISU Games abroad and depending on the volume of sponsorship we receive, individual players will get sponsorship deals to enable them pursue their academic career,” Gara-Gombe said with great optimism. On the issue of security at the various campuses when the HiFL kick-starts, Gara-Gombe assured that it would be dealt with by the organisers of the tourney. Speaking to The Point in a separate interview, the NUGA President, Prof. Stephen Hamafyelto hailed the project but added that one of the forces that could help shape the future of the initiative and sport in general is quality funding or sponsorship. “To achieve success in the HiFL initiative, we have to do what the Chinese are doing. With sponsorships, there are over 300 million Chinese youth currently playing basketball in China. The government in China views basketball not as recreation but as a significant industry impacting positively on both society and its commerce. In this regard, companies or corporations like Nike, Li-Ning and NBA play an increasing greater role in developing their market and basketball talent. “If sport  must gain its pride of place in Nigeria, it must be projected as a national ambition. Gone are those days when the country had to depend on athletes picked from the streets to form national teams for Nigeria in competitions. The enormity of instilling discipline by coaches in such players can better be imagined. Therefore, the best platform for recruiting athletes for the country remains our schools, not our streets,” he counselled. Hamafyelto further assured that NUGA was ready to embrace the HiFL project to inspire Nigerian students to be the next generation of leaders through excellence in sport and academics. In his reaction to the HiFL project that will see many universities battle for glory in football, the Executive Secretary of National Universities Commission,  Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, commended the marketers of HiFL project, Pace Sports and Entertainment Marketing Limited, which are into partnershp with  NUGA on the project. “As a regulator, it is our responsibility to ensure the provision of sporting facilities as well as supervise and encourage the organisation, for the full utilisation of the various sport potentials in the institutions for national development. “The Commission, therefore, will not rest on its oars but will continue to encourage such healthy collaborations to actualise its desire of producing budding athletes as ‘feeder house’ to the national teams,” he concluded. Meanwhile, Gara-Gombe has revealed that more than 79 universities will feature during the qualifying rounds of the maiden HiFL tourney which begins in July, 2018, but only 16 teams will  eventually make it to the league phase. He stated that the League phase will be divided into Atlantic and Savannah league, to produce teams that will qualify for knockout stages to the final. 