A cyber-crime suspect has allegedly stabbed his friend to death, following a brawl that ensued between the two of them.
The suspect, simply identified as Ahmed, resides at 18, Afeolu Street, Denro, Ojodu Abiodun in Ifo Local Government Area of Ogun State.
The incident, which took place outside the residence of the suspect, occurred at around 9:00 pm.
Our correspondent gathered that Ahmed and the victim, Larry Babatunde, were drinking with two of their friends, simply identified as Igwe and Fatuga, when the incident occurred at about 9:00pm.
The four men, alleged to be cybercrime suspects (Yahoo Boys), it was learnt, were being hosted by Igwe, the leader of the group, to mark his birthday, which was coming up in three days’ time.
Our correspondent gathered that, while the four friends were reveling, a scuffle suddenly ensued between Ahmed and Larry.
Ahmed reportedly seized a bottle of beer from the table and smashed it on Larry’s head and also stabbed him on the chest.
An eyewitness revealed that the fracas, which led to the tragedy, was in connection with a “shady business transaction of about N70,000.”
But it was also learnt that the brawl was linked to a disagreement between the two friends over a girlfriend.
Sources revealed that Igwe, a notorious Yahoo Boy in the area and father of three children, must have orchestrated the attack on 34-year-old Larry.
It was gathered that Igwe failed to provide emergency aid to the victim, when he was calling for help to save his life, following the attack, which left him bleeding heavily.
Ahmed, our correspondent learnt, left the scene after the attack while Igwe and Fatuga also fled the area upon realising that Larry had died.
The corpse of the deceased had since been deposited at a morgue. He is survived by his 17-year-old son.
The case has been reported at Ajuwon Police Division and Fatuga has been arrested, while the other suspects, Ahmed and Igwe, are still at large.
A neighbour to the suspects, who did not want her name mentioned, told our correspondent, “The four friends were drinking outside, close to the gate, around 9:30 in the night. I had even slept and our landlord and his family had gone to bed, too. It was my husband that came back from work banging the door, saying that we were there sleeping; that they had killed someone outside the house. We all rushed out with our landlord. When we got outside, we met Uncle Larry covered in blood.
“According to some residents, who were outside when the incident happened, Igwe was even making jest of Uncle Larry when he was stabbed by Ahmed, that the attack served him right.
“We even heard that he (Igwe) was telling motorists passing to steer clear of the scene; that someone had been injured. It was after he noticed that Larry had died that he called Fatuga, who had gone inside when Ahmed stabbed him, to come and see what had happened and the two of them quickly ran away.
“Ahmed has left the house since that time. Many police officers have been coming to our house and Alhaji (the landlord) has been the one reporting at the station. I have never seen this kind of a thing in my life.”
Also speaking, a foodstuff seller in the area, who pleaded anonymity, said, “Lanre was a very nice guy. He just bought foodstuffs of N5,000 and gave me Chelsea drink as he was seeing his girlfriend off that night, not knowing that death was already hovering over him. He was a very nice and gentle guy.”
An elderly resident of the area, simply identified as Baba Edu, said, “This is very unfortunate. That young man was a very nice person. His death is really a big blow to us in this community. It is we, old people, that should die, not young ones like this.”
When contacted, the Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said the case had not been reported to the
command.
Oyeyemi, an assistant superintendent of police, added that he would contact the Ajuwon Police Division for the details of the incident.
“The case has not been reported. I will call the division to confirm,” he said. 