Perhaps, one of Nigeria’s biggest problem is the way institutions created to make the country better are destroyed by the greed of those in charge of them. Government institutions are particularly guilty in this regard. But so also is the private sector, and especially the entertainment industry, which has seen its associations like the Actors Guild of Nigeria and the Performing Musicians Association of Nigeria that are supposed to make the industry better, only worsen things through leadership tussles. And now, the Copyright Society of Nigeria (COSON), which has been involved in an external battle since inception against the creation of a similar body, is now also facing the worst possible battle, an internal one. COSON’s foundation can be said to have been compromised from the very start as it wants a royalty collection monopoly, which is not the case in the developed world. But while still battling other people, who want their own societies registered, some of its members, led by Efe Omorogbe, including Obi Asika and Baba Dee, plotted the removal of Tony Okoroji as COSON chairman and succeeded. However, other members restored him. This was in December 2017. But the problem remained, unknown to many, and now it has boiled over. Omorogbe, who was chosen by the dissenters to replace Okoroji as chairman, refuses to give up the chairmanship and he and his supporters have been fighting the battle so much so that they have the government’s support. Okoroji, in his own case, has sued Omorogbe to stop him from parading himself as COSON chairman. Omorogbe has responded by holding a board meeting in front of the COSON building, as it was under lock and key. With all these, it’s obvious that COSON is about to be destroyed just like AGN, PMAN and others because of the greed being exhibited by some. To save the day, both Okoroji and Omorogbe can walk away from the chairmanship. If they don’t, however, then maybe both of them will have COSON’s probable destruction on their conscience. 