…as apex court endorses hearing  This was as the Supreme Court ruled on Friday in favour of Abraham, in which the apex court dismissed an appeal filed by Akeredolu, that Abraham could not serve him court documents in relation to the suit the latter filed, through substituted means. The governor had earlier lost the appeal at the high court and appeal court levels. Abraham is in court, contesting the victory of Akeredolu at the primary election, averring that the governor became the flagbearer of APC through the aid of fake party delegates, and that, he, Abraham, actually won at the shadow election and should be declared the governor of Ondo State. There are, however, indications that the suit filed by Abraham against Akeredolu, could be decided within 22 days, once an Abuja Federal High Court resumes hearing on the substantive matter. Earlier in October, 2017, the Federal High Court had resolved to speedily rule on the matter, “in the interest of justice.” The Presiding judge, Justice Nnamdi Dimgba, then gave an assurance as he adjourned sine die in the suit, pending the determination of the appeal on substituted service, then pending at the Supreme Court, that it would be given accelerated hearing. Justice Dimgba had said, “I can assure you of accelerated hearing and due justice in this suit once the Supreme Court gives its ruling. “I will hear parties within a day and deliver judgement within 21 days of hearing. I want to ensure that this case leave my docket without any delay whatsoever.” The Supreme Court, in dismissing Akeredolu’s appeal at the weekend, awarded N500, 000 in favour of Abraham.  It was observed that Akeredolu’s counsel deserted the court, while the ruling was being delivered. . The apex court affirmed the decision of the Appeal Court which upheld a ruling of the trial court, earlier granting leave to Abraham to serve the documents through substituted means. Abraham is thought to be the preferred candidate of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, national leader of the APC. Tinubu, who was recently appointed to reconcile APC members at loggerheads nationwide, was reportedly advised not to come to Ondo State by Akeredolu, who said there was no dispute in the state’s chapter of the APC At the apex court on Friday, a five-man panel of justices led by John Okoro held that the governor’s appeal lacked merit. A resumption date is due for the substantive matter before Justice Dimgba of the Abuja Federal High Court. 