The Inspector-General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, has been given a 14-day ultimatum to produce the two escapee suspects that named Sen. Dino Melaye as the supplier of guns to them. This ultimatum was given in a point of order raised at the Senate on Wednesday by Dino Melaye. Melaye, who threatened to sue the IG for “mental assault” should he fail to produce the two suspects, stated that the escapee suspects are “presumed innocent until proven guilty and they also have right to life.” He said, “Mr. President the social media this morning was awash – and I have made confirmation that the suspects in my case who said I gave them guns and money – there is a reported case in Lokoja that there was jailbreak at 5:00a.m. this morning and the two suspects have escaped. “We were all supposed to appear before the Lokoja high court this morning. My lawyers were in court at 9a.m. and the case was called up and the prosecutor of the Nigerian police could not produce the two persons. “Instead of producing the two persons, they asked the judge to issue a bench warrant for an arrest but the judge refused to grant their prayers and the judge said despite the fact that I have not been served, I sent representation to the court. And the main accused persons are absent in court. “So she cannot grant a bench warrant and the matter has been adjourned to May 10. “And the senate has set up a committee that will start vigorous investigation today. Surprisingly these two people have now been declared escapees. “I want to use the opportunity and on the principle of justice to call on the Inspector-General of police that within 48 hours, he must produce these accused persons because they are presumed innocent until proven guilty; they also have right to life  “So police must as a matter of urgency produce these two accused persons. Failure to do so I will sue the IG for mental assault. Nigeria is not a banana republic.” The Commissioner of Police in Kogi State, Mr Ali Janga, disclosed this at a press conference in Lokoja that two suspects, Kabiru Seidu alias Osama and Nuhu Salisu alias Small, escaped at about 3:21 a.m. at the A Police Division in Lokoja where they were being kept in lawful custody. According to him, four other suspects escaped along with Seidu and Salisu, bringing the total number of fleeing suspects to six. He said both Seidu and Salisu escaped on Wednesday when they were supposed to be arraigned before a Lokoja Federal High Court alongside Melaye and Mr Mohammed Audu who was also named by the suspects as their sponsor. The commissioner identified Aliyu Isa , Adams Suleiman, Emmanuel Audu and Musa Mohammed as four other suspects that escaped from custody. He said that 13 policemen comprising five operatives of Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) and eight conventional policemen on duty when the incident happened had been detained for interrogation. “ The 13 police officers who were on duty when the incident occurred were defaulted and detained for interrogation,” he said. Janga also stated that the names of the six fleeing suspects and that of Dino Melaye and Mohammed Audu had been sent for watch listing by the Interpol for immediate arrest anywhere they are found. He appealed to residents to assist the police with useful information on the whereabouts of the suspects by reporting to the nearest police station. The police enjoined members of the public to go about their lawful businesses as the command was in full control of the situation and determined to provide adequate security for lives and property. 