Amidst strident calls across the country for improved security of life and property, even as the Police continue to infer that they are overworked, the Police Service Commission made a chilling disclosure, recently. It said more than 150,000 policemen were attached to VIPs and unauthorised persons in the country. Nigeria currently has about 400,000 police officers and men.
The information, coming from the Chairman of the PSC, Mr. Mike Okiro, an Inspector-General of Police between 2007 and 2009, said the country could not afford to have close to half the population of the Police in private hands.
His statement came barely a few weeks after an Assistant Inspector-General of Police in charge of Zone 5, Rasheed Akintunde, said only 20 per cent of Nigeria’s policemen were engaged in core police duties of protecting lives and ensuring peace. He told officers and men of the Police headquarters in Bayelsa, during his tour of the state, that “the remaining 80 per cent are just busy providing personal security to some ‘prominent people’ on guard duties.” AIG Akintunde decried the situation where some prominent people in the society sought more than 30
policemen to protect them, while the bulk of work for the members of the force should rest on protecting the masses.
The constitutional duty of government is the provision of security for all citizens and ensuring law and order across the country. The presence of the police is government’s physical expression of security of life and property, ultimately aimed at maintaining law and order. But a situation where people who served as governors and ministers, some 10, 15 years ago, still go about with Police security detail is very ridiculous. The fact is that the nation cannot be battling with the upsurge of serious crimes such as kidnapping, armed robbery and other homicidal crimes, especially in the cities, and at the same time grappling with a terrible shortage of manpower in its police force. Is it worth an excuse, therefore, that most of its officers who could have been deployed to fight crimes are in the service of a few privileged Nigerians, doing guard duties? President Muhammadu Buhari had, in 2015, directed that police personnel attached to unauthorised persons and VIPs in the country be withdrawn and deployed to confront the security challenges in the nation. Shortly after the President’s directive, the PSC, in conjunction with the Nigeria Police Force, commenced the implementation of the withdrawal of police officers, but the exercise was reportedly stalled “owing to lack of fund.” Whatever it means! It is indeed sad that the so-called big man in the Nigerian society wants a number of policemen stationed in his various houses to secure him and his family members, instead of supporting the police to work and ensure a safer environment. Worse still, even supposed “honourable” members of the National Assembly, who were voted into the Assembly by the people, want police guards to protect them from the same people that voted them into the National Assembly. Even Reverend Fathers and Bishops too now want police security. Does this not reflect the alarming increase in the level of insecurity in Nigeria?
There is no doubting that 400, 000 police officers cannot adequately provide security for Nigeria’s estimated population of 190 million. The gross shortage of police officers to provide round-the-clock security for Nigerians has left room for criminally minded people to operate anywhere in the country at will, without any police to check their nefarious activities. This has resulted in serious security lapses in many parts of the country. It is partly because of the serious security lapses and the need to enforce tighter security, especially in the urban centres, that many citizens are calling for the creation of State Police. It appears that the police authorities lack the much needed political will to implement the President’s directive, that police personnel attached to unauthorised persons and VIPs in the country be withdrawn and deployed to confront the security challenges in the nation. If not, why would a directive as important as this be ignored simply because of “lack of funds?” If financial problems were the reasons the presidential directives were not carried out, the Inspector General of Police ought to have reported his inability to do so, officially, to the appropriate authorities.  Going forward, the IGP must wake up and be alert to his core duties. He must swiftly overcome those lethargies that made him to abdicate deployment of policemen to do their rightful duties.
The IGP must also instantly put right, all the lapses noted and ensure that policemen across the country face their constitutional responsibility of fighting crime and ensuring security of all citizens and foreigners resident in the country. Politicians and other VIPs, who feel that they need security men for guard duties, should approach private security outfits for such purpose. 