The Benin Electricity Distribution Company has tendered its apologies to Aiyede-Ogbese, a community in Akure North Local Council area of Ondo State, for the unethical conduct of two of its officials, who reportedly threatened to throw the town into “eternal darkness.” The officials, identified as Nicholas and Ayeni, were said to have issued the threat, following the insistence of the locals on being given pre-paid meters, to put an end to a regime of outrageous billing. In tendering the apologies on behalf of the Distribution Company, at a parley with the leaders of the community over the weekend, the Head, Marketing, BEDC, in charge of Owo zone, Mr. Samuel Igbinoba, said, “The attitude of the two individuals was not a reflection of the discipline and ethics of the energy distribution company. “I can assure you that the BEDC is willing to enter into negotiation with you, the residents of Ayede-Ogbese, in order to put a more humane structure and billing method in place.” Igbinoba promised to convey the complaints and demands of the community to the BEDC head-office in Benin-City, Edo State. A week before the parley, residents of Ayede-Ogbese had called for the immediate arrest of the two officials, over alleged acts of sabotage. Specifically, the residents alleged that the officials had begun illegal removal of supply cables to homes and businesses, with a vow to throw the entire Aiyede-Ogbese kingdom “into eternal darkness.” The residents, who lodged a complaint through the Odopetu, High Chief Oladimeji Abitogun, on behalf of the Regent of the town, Princess kofoworola Oluyede-Olagbaju, alleged that the BEDC officials were waging “electricity war” against the community in retaliation for a 14-day notice served on the DISCO by the community: to provide them pre-paid meters or risk suspension of electricity bills’ payment. Nicholas and Ayeni, Abitogun said, called on the phone and threatened “to throw Aiyede-Ogbese into eternal darkness, similar to what Ese-Odo, Ilaje and Akoko people have experienced for close to five years’” Abitogun stressed, “We are demanding immediate supply of pre-paid meters and the need to stop arbitrary billing methods because we are continually being scammed through crazy bills that are apparently not affordable. “For instance, a peasant who can hardly afford three square meals and lives in a little apartment without refrigerator or air-conditioner is being asked to pay N10, 000 or N12, 000 monthly. How does he
survive? “And knowing that he is unable to pay, he is now being asked to bribe with N2, 000 or have his supply disconnected. “That is why we have insisted that enough is enough; we want pre-paid meters or nothing.” 