A former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria and presidential aspirant of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, Prof. Kingsley Moghalu, has pledged to put an end to tribalism and internal conflicts between ethnic groups in the country. Moghalu said that, if elected President of the country in 2019, he would focus on reigniting the fire of patriotism and ensure corruption as well as other vices were wiped away for a better society to thrive. He stressed that his blueprint, if given the opportunity to hold the reins of governance in Nigeria, would include eradicating nepotism, combating endemic corruption in public life and entrenching a new culture of a round table dialogue to resolve various issues of national importance.   The former CBN deputy governor added that his administration would be anchored on ideas driven with a view to bringing fresh orientation in leadership to achieve excellence through hard work for a more vibrant and accommodating society in the collective interest of all Nigerians and generations yet unborn. Moghalu, who spoke to our correspondent in Makurdi, Benue State, shortly after his visit to the state, regretted a situation where out of the untapped high population of human resource in the country of 180 million people, 150 million lived in abject poverty. He said that findings had revealed that, on the average, the middle class survived on less than two dollars a day (N600). The APGA presidential aspirant also stressed that a vibrant economy would be the front burner of his administration, whereby all hands must be on deck towards ensuring that the fortunes of the country were turned around for the better. “I’m optimistic that given the abundant resources, we shall strive to make Nigerians self-reliant by embarking on entrepreneurship of some kind, whereby funds would be made available to the youth and women to embark on any venture of their choice; therefore, de-emphasising white collar jobs as well as seeking paid jobs,” he said. The Nnewi-born presidential hopeful condemned the recent wanton destruction of lives and property in some parts of the country under whatsoever guise, describing the incidents as cruel and dehumanising. Moghalu also advocated a paradigm shift to the youths for a complete re-engineering of the system to enhance the development of the country. 