 Deposit Money Banks are expected to refund about N64.8 billion excess charges deducted from the accounts of their numerous depositors between January 2016 and December 2017, investigations by The Point have revealed. The figures, which were obtained from reliable sources at the Central Bank of Nigeria, represented an increase of about 1000 per cent, between 2016 and 2017, over the N6.2 billion recorded in
2015. The apex bank had forced the financial institutions to refund the N6.2 billion to depositors in 2015 as excess charges and other illegal deductions. There are indications that the latest figure could increase geometrically by the end of 2018 as many banks struggle to boost their liquidity status. Consumer associations have alleged that financial institutions in Nigeria make excess deductions from customers’ accounts and cut corners through other sharp practices whenever they are faced with liquidity issues or whenever they anticipate CBN’s c
lampdown.   Top on the list of banks with high incidence of complaints, as revealed by documents sighted by our correspondent at the apex bank and through investigations, are: Diamond Bank Plc, First City Monument Bank Plc, and Union Bank of Nigeria Plc. The excess charges and other fraud-related cases investigated by CBN increased from 6,000 in 2015 to over 13,000, before the
end of 2017. BLAME CBN’S NEGLIGENCE – CONSUMER ADVOCATES However, consumer advocates have blamed the apex bank for the development, claiming that it has not been proactive over the years in curbing the excess charges’ menace. President and Founder, a not-for-profit organisation, dedicated to advocacy for consumer rights and protection, Consumer Advocacy Forum, Nigeria, Ms. Olusola Salako, blamed the situation on what she described as negligence on the part of the apex bank. According to her, the systems of most of the banks are designed to carry out multiple charges on the accounts of their depositors with the plan of making refunds, either when the customer raises eyebrows or when the apex bank instructs them to refund. She said, “The menace has been on for decades and it is embarrassing that it is still on. I expect CBN to probe all cases of excess charges and other illegal deductions and sanction erring institutions. “It should not be limited to refund because if the act is planned, the bank might not refund all the money it illegally deducted. Several depositors are either ignorant or care-free and often decide to ignore the act, especially if the amount involved is meagre. “A lot of depositors do not even know where to turn, as they are at the mercy of the banks, because they feel neglected by the CBN.” “The apex bank should compel and monitor the banks to ensure they run a transparent and fair system. They must listen to their depositors that have been fleeced, refund their money and ensure that culprits face sanctions for the act,” she added. A lawyer with expertise in corporate governance, Barrister Oladele Solanke, told The Point that in Nigeria, most people were fleeced under the watch of the apex regulator and nothing happened. According to him, except for the intervention of the recent Consumer Protection Council, especially under the administration of its immediate past Director-General, Mrs. Dupe Atoki, the required legal infrastructure to protect consumers from rip-off and refund without compensation was not in place. He blamed the CBN for the several cases of alleged rip-off by financial institutions, that had gone uninvestigated. “There are lots of complaints with the apex bank that have not been touched and several cases at the court that have been adjourned over the years. “The operations of CBN cannot be effective till an enabling environment is created for it to work and that will take some time. There is a pathetic customer service relation in Nigeria that you don’t get anywhere, even among other developing nations, especially with the banks. “There is the need to strengthen our law; we need strong enforcement from regulatory institutions, to change the face of quality service delivery in Nigeria,” he told our correspondent. SENATE TO SUMMON CBN, BANKS’ MDs Meanwhile, the Senate has directed its Committee on Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions, to investigate illegal deductions and arbitrary charges on depositors’ funds by commercial banks. Though, efforts to reach the Committee Chairman, Dr. Rafiu Ibrahim, were abortive, Senator Dino Melaye confirmed that the committee was mandated to invite the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, forensic auditors, Managing Directors of commercial banks and other stakeholders, to a public hearing to harmonise and amend laws that do not adequately protect customers from illegal banking practices. “We are concerned that several of the CBN’s applicable rules that should remedy such hardship and discourage sharp practices by the commercial banks are conflicting, vague and unjust, thereby causing the commercial banks to frequently short change their customers,” he told our correspondent. Melaye added that the practice had continued for years, because the deductions were usually too little to attract attention. “Millions of naira have, however, been stolen by the banks this way. How many Nigerians actually probe their bank statements? Banks trade with funds of deceased customers, instead of contacting the next of kin of such persons to recover the deposited funds. I am sure the committee would soon summon them,” he added. OUR EFFORTS YIELDING RESULTS – CBN However, the Acting Director, Corporate Communications, CBN, Mr. Isaac Okorafor, argued that the bank’s efforts to ensure that the banks played by the rules were yielding desired results. He reiterated that the apex bank had recovered over N50 billion as excessive charges on bank customers by financial institutions. He said, “CBN is unrelenting in its resolve to ensure that excessive charges are stopped as the practice is against the campaign for banking inclusion and fair deal. “The banking public should promptly report incidences of excessive charges, when discovered, to the Consumer Protection Department of the CBN, for action. CBN has established the necessary mechanism to reverse every form of unwholesome practice by DMBs.” According to him, the apex bank has a Customer Bill of Rights and depositors should access the bank’s website and read up the “Guide to Bank Charges in order to know their rights with a view to guarding against being overcharged by banks. 