  Nigeria’s First Lady, Hajia Aisha Muhammadu Buhari has stated that his Aide De Camp, ADC, Sani Baban-Inna, a Chief Superintendent of Police, CSP, who was arrested over allegation of N2.5 billion fraud, had used his position to defraud unsuspecting officials while also saying that she has no hand in his arrest. This was made known in a statement by her Director of Information, Suleiman Haruna in Abuja on Tuesday. According to the statement, she said that the arrest and detention of the ADC by the police was within the jurisdiction of the force. The statement read, “The attention of wife of the President, Dr. Mrs. Aisha Muhammadu Buhari has been drawn to some media publications and releases purporting illegal detention of her Aide De Camp (ADC) over allegations of fraud. “The story as it pertains to her ADC, Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) Sani Baban-Inna has it that he has been detained on the orders of Her Excellency for dropping her name and defrauding unsuspecting officials and associates. “She wishes to use this opportunity to refute such allegation and to state that she has no hand in his arrest and detention. “CSP Sani Baban-Inna has been her ADC since 2016 and has been associated with her ever since. To the utter dismay of Her Excellency, he has used the opportunity to defraud unsuspecting associates and officials as initial investigations have shown.” Justifying that the police acted within its powers, she said, “The Nigeria Police Force, his employers arrested him to investigate the allegations leveled against him, this, being within their jurisdiction. “She therefore wishes to use this opportunity to inform the general public that she has never sent any of her staff to collect any favours on her behalf or on behalf of her children and will never do so. She is therefore imploring anyone that has been defrauded by Mr. Baban-Inna to get across to him to retrieve whatever he took from them. Mrs. Buhari wishes to reiterate that she will not condone fraudulent behavior by any of her staff. “She uses this opportunity to call on all those in positions of authority to rise above intimidation by their aides and deal with such attitudes as extortion by name-dropping, especially within the Presidency. As she always emphasizes, this government was voted into office based on the trust and confidence of the people.” 