The All Progressives Congress aspirant for the Akwanga/Wamba/Nassarawa Eggon Federal Constituency, Mr. Iliya Ibn Aliyu, has picked the nomination and expression of interest forms to contest in the party primaries scheduled for September 29, 2018. The aspirant, who picked the forms at the APC National Secretariat, Abuja, expressed confidence that he would get his party’s nomination. He described himself as the most qualified, given his pedigree and credentials, adding that the consultation he had in 35 wards of his constituency provided him the opportunity to understand the real needs of the people of his constituency. Aliyu said his party had resolved to vote for him as the most popular and competent of all the aspirants to fly the party’s flag in the 2019 general elections. Speaking with newsmen shortly after obtaining his nomination and expression of interest forms, he said, “The chances are bright as far as I am concerned. I have put in place a strong mechanism that will give me the opportunity to emerge the winner of the primary within the APC as a party. “I have every hope and I am optimistic I will emerge the flag-bearer of the APC. I have been prayerful, working hard and reaching out to people. I have good relationship with the electorates. They are much more at home with my aspiration and they are ready at any given time to give me support so as to emerge winner of the primary, and eventually become a flag-bearer.” Aliyu said he did not rule out the possibility of negotiation with opponents before the primary, adding, “Sincerely speaking, I have not, and I will not rule out the possibility of negotiation because it is part of politics. But I do also believe in the principle that says, first in time always prevails. So, I am the first person to throw myself in the ring and people have embraced that and they have been comfortable with me. I equally believe that, whoever that is coming after me, he should give me the opportunity. If we go by that principle of first in time prevails and last in, should be the first out, when it comes to negotiation. We should appreciate this.” Giving a reason for his contest, the APC Aspirant for the Akwanga/Wamba/Nassarawa Eggon Federal constituency, said he discovered a missing link between representation and followership. He said the representatives had not been engaging the electorate to appreciate their exact needs, arguing that that had created a gap of understanding between the representatives and their constituents. Aliyu said, “The reason for me vying for this office was largely informed by the peculiar situation, or circumstances within the federal constituency which I am aspiring to represent. You will agree with me first that I have identified that over the years there is missing link of unity among the people that constitute my Federal Constituency. It is more or less one of the major challenges today. If I assume the office in the House of Representatives, I intend to see that I bring all and sundry together. We must agree to the fact that we are one. We must work in tandem with our norms, values and aspirations, and expectations. We must again look at other issues because until or unless we are unified, we can’t be able to achieve our desired aspirations. “It is my hope and desire to galvanise through the efforts of lobbying, through the effort of presentation, through the effort of influence and connection to see that my own Zone, my own Federal Constituency, has a say and has the attention of the Federal Government. “It is not out of place when you say that Akwanga, Wamba, Nassarawa Eggon Federal Constituency has not been given the right attention it desires for purposes of progress, and development. These are the areas we are going to focus on, these are the areas we feel that our people must be given that sense of belonging and all efforts to see that that has been done, we’ll definitely do it at the human level.” 