 … Promises to bring development to Yewa  SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA  A young aspirant, Oluwatosin Odunfa has declared his intention to run for the Yewa South /Ipokia Federal Constituency in the House of Representative on the platform of the African Democratic Congress, ADC, in the 2019 elections. Odunfa made his declaration known on Thursday when he met with members of the party at Ilaro saying that his decision to aspire for the political post under ADC was because it provides opportunity for young Nigerians. He noted that the Yewa South/Ipokia constituency has been contributing immensely to the development of the capital (Abeokuta) with the so much revenue being generated at the Idiroko border which is very close to the town. The young aspirant said that one of the reasons he joined the race of his constituency was to liberate his people from untold hardship in the areas of unemployment, agriculture, health, education and other sectors. Odunfa however said that he was also aspiring for the position to be a source of inspiration to the youth of his constituency especially in technology and to bring developmental projects to the area so as to make people consider moving from the urban areas and reside in the rural area. “Indeed the people of Yewa South have provided significant resources to the central and let us not forget also that we house the border town of Idiroko which happened to be the first border town in this country. It is also quite clear that unemployment is the major issue. It is unfortunate that despite the fact that we are generating so much revenue from Idiroko, the children that go to school and graduate have no jobs and they end up being forced into crimes. “Another important part of my aspirations is to inspire young people who are cerebral, energetic and technology-savvy and there is so much opportunities for us.” “I think it is critical that young people across Nigeria who are educated, who understands technology begins to move back to the rural areas perhaps through politics or perhaps through  the private sector it is extremely important that we  reached back and ensure that the inclusion of the   rural areas make way for a new and transformed Nigeria.” he added. He therefore assured the people that Nigeria would be great if mineral resources were harnessed in certain areas including his constituency. 