 ADELEKE ADESANYA A governorship aspirant of the African Democratic Congress, ADC, in Ogun State, Prince Gboyega Nasir Isiaka, has urged Governor Ibikunle Amosun to pay all the state’s outstanding foreign and domestic debts before leaving office in May 28, 2019. Isiaka who is popularly called GNI, addressed newsmen after he submitted his letter of intent at the party’s state secretariat in Abeokuta. He said the state is indebted to several institutions because the state government has failed to priotise its plans, which was responsible for several abandoned projects littered across the state. GNI said, “Every state government has all resources required to solve the problems of its people. I understand there could be challenges but that should not be celebrated by any governor. The electorates are disillusioned with the style of governance adopted by the ruling party in the state and are determined to seek alternative platform.” He assured Ogun residents that if elected, his administration will ensure all abandoned projects are completed. “Government is continuous and all inherited projects should be completed otherwise, anyone that failed to do that will end up wasting the resources of the state spent on such projects by his predecessor. No matter what it takes, a proactive government must be able to turn liabilities in the state to assets,” he added. According to him, ADC is a vision-driven grass root political party with Role-Modelling Leadership paradigm and does not impose candidate on its members or practice money politics. He said that he is out to liberate the people of Ogun State from slavish mind-sets that have seen the impoverishment of the majority by bringing governance to the doorstep of every residents of the state. “I promise to restore the dignity of Ogun State residents through solution-driven, socio-economic interventions, inculcation of clear values and understanding of fundamental rights which are well articulated in the party manifesto.” He concluded. 