… Says we remain committed to CUPP AYO ESAN, ABUJA The African Democratic Congress has said it is adopting direct and indirect primaries options to pick its candidates for the 2019 general elections.
ADC National Chairman, Chief Okey Nwosu, disclosed this at the party secretariat in Abuja. Nwosu said that the party had accepted proposals to use the two options to select its candidates for the various elective positions in the run up to the forthcoming general elections. “For the first phase of between now and 2019 general elections, some states have indicated indirect and some have indicated direct primaries options. You know politics is local. What appeals to stakeholders in one state may not apply to stakeholders in another state. So, we have adopted the two options and the stakeholders from each state will pick the one they want,” the ADC chairman said. Nwosu also used the opportunity to refute claims in some quarters that the ADC had pulled out of the Coalition of United Political Parties, saying there was no time the party contemplated pulling out of the CUPP. “There was no time ADC pulled out of CUPP. An ADC member has been made the chairman of CUPP. We are deeply interested in CUPP. Prince Olàgunsoye Oyinlola is the Chairman of CUPP and he is an ADC member. We are committed to that. We are committed to this nation. Around all the corners of this country, whether it is in Bayelsa or in Borno State or Yobe State, you’ll find all patriotic minds in the ADC and these patriots are ready to work with other patriots to make sure we save our country. And we have to salvage it. There has been an MOU and we are still committed to this MOU.” He further explained that ADC would field candidates for all the elective offices and stressed that the party remained independent, inspite of it’s being in alliance with about 40 other political parties. Nwosu said, “ADC as a political party, is a sovereign political party. We are contesting all the elections. In the interim, we have this arrangement on the Presidency. In the long run, ADC will manifest as the most serious party. “All the parties involved in the alliance will have their presidential aspirants. These presidential aspirants are going to be put in a strategic basket or container. All presidential aspirants from the ADC and other parties are going to be put in that container. We have a committee which will filter them. And in the process, we will come out with the best candidate that will serve this nation at this time. For the nation is in great distress, and it will take some sacrifice on the part of we, politicians for us to be able to rescue it. We have to have a nation to play politics. We have to have a nation to grow.” On the lawmakers who recently defected to the ADC from other political parties, Nwosu explained that not all those wishing to defect to the party were accepted. “You know it is a very rare thing in Nigeria to see people in power leaving power to say we want to stay with these people to participate in building the country. And if you see the nature of the defection, you can sieve the quality ones from the others. Not everybody, who wanted to defect to ADC was chosen. We have our guiding principle and these people have signed documents that they will buy into our guiding principle. Otherwise, you would have seen over 500 lawmakers across the country who wanted to come to ADC. We have to screen them; we are building a modern political party which every Nigerian will be proud of,” Nwosu said. 