Sanwo-Olu declares ambition, pledges loyalty to APC leadership Adeleke Adesanya A governorship aspirant under the umbrella of All Progressive Congress, APC, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has pledged an allegiance to the leadership of the party ahead of his ambition to contest for governorship ticket in Lagos State. The aspirant, who is rumoured to be the newly-baptized candidate of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, while declaring his ambition in Lagos today, said he was prepared to serve the party leaders and followers with total loyalty. He harped that loyalty remains very important to ensure adequate commitment to citizenry and party. “I am sending a clarion call to all our members that there is a lot to be done to achieve a Lagos of our dream. I present myself as a capable, competent and tested hand to make Lagos greater. “I declared that I shall be a true party man in the real definition and in running an inclusive government according to the ideology of APC and long term benefits of citizens. I shall be loyal to the people of the state and leadership of the party. I urge my party members to join me in elevating the state in all facets of human endeavours through improvement and enlightenment. Sanwo-Olu, also commended the efforts of Asiwaju Tinubu in achieving modern Lagos. “Modern Lagos, since the inception of this administration, is blessed with innovators and visionary leaders. And that is why I must recognise the man that led in the modernisation of Lagos and a celebrated tactician and national leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. “The preparation of visionary programmes like the Lagos State Economic and development strategy, linking us to the path of development which are in four parts for the next 25 years and expansion to continue and provide a blueprint for our people. This vision put together by eminent Lagosians, prepared our state ahead for the growing challenges,” he said. Speaking on his ambition, he said that he was ready to move Lagos to the next level. “I feel privileged to be part of that process that made it happen. I assure you that it shall continue to be the road map when I become the next civilian Governor of the state. “This foundation has survived the test of time because Asiwaju was able to recruit excellent and brilliant successors. But without the ratification of Lagosians who had voted massively for them during the general election, his wish wouldn’t have become the popular choice of the people. So we didn’t take the people for granted. “My public service career has crowned the glorious achievement of my journey to the private sector where I had worked in the financial industry. APC has been established as a grassroot party for workers, artisans and others, and they all desired the progressive development of Nigeria. “The manifesto of our party promises a welfare programme by building the capacity of our economy so that we can provide jobs for the youths and make the country stable and secure. These values are the things that I believe in and I am ready to defend it. I will ensure its propagation. And they drive my present desire. “If elected as the next Governor of Lagos State, I shall immediately embark on full restoration of the glory of the state. And make the people the cornerstone of government. I will restore the environment that has become worrisome to Lagosians. I will relieve residents of Lagos State of the persistent gridlocks and hiccups that has made life brutish and nasty for all of us. Our government focal point shall be to provide the greatest good for the greatest number of the people of Lagos State. I have invited you all here to join me in this journey to take Lagos to new dimension by transforming the manifesto of our party to the programme of action. ” Meanwhile, the aspirant commended the efforts of immediate past governor of the state, Mr Babatunde Fashola. He said; “I wish to commend Fashola for his contribution and his glorious path. I am inspired by the courage and achievement of all the leaders who have chartered the path and development of Lagos state. “I have therefore decided, like the great American President, John Kennedy, not to continue to wait for what my state shall do for me, but to challenge myself on what I can do for my state. When I look back at my experience in the public service, I realised that God has prepared me for this moment. Sanwo-Olu, however, commended the foremost governors of Lagos state who he said their efforts in the state cannot be over-quantified. “Since 1922, the contest has thrown up great men like Herbert Macaulay, Akintoye Ajasa, Dr. Adeniyi Jones among others. “There is no way to review the history of Lagos without placing on record the contribution of Brig. Mobolaji Johnson, the first governor of the state and Pa Lateef Jakande, the first civilian governor of the state and many others that led in the development of the great state. 