Nigerians from all walks of life have continued to react to the resignation of the former minister of finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun. The embattled Adeosun resigned her appointment as finance minister after being indicted by the National Youth Service Corps that she forged her certificate of exemption from the one-year compulsory scheme. Consequently, some economic experts have joined the fray, arguing that her resignation as the finance minister should be an opportunity for the Federal Government to appoint a successor that would move the nation’s economy forward. They argued that investors would be more interested in Adeosun’s successor as finance minister, as her performance had left the economy in a sorry state. President Muhammadu Buhari has already appointed the minister of state in the Ministry of Finance to replace Adeosun. The Managing Director, Cowry Asset Management Company, Mr. Johnson Chukwu, said, “In terms of the government image, I think dropping her resignation letter is good for the government in power and the stand and campaign to fight against corruption. “But as it relates to the economy, I think what will be of greater importance to the investors is who will succeed her; not necessarily because she is leaving. Even the kind of allegation that were made against her in the past three months, it didn’t come as a surprise to the market or investors that she is leaving.” Chukwu said what would be of paramount concern to the ministry at this point should be the pedigree of Adeosun’s successor, “the incoming recommendation of her successor and from the level of tax record, that will determine what the investors should expect. “I think the greater concern is whether they should expect market value because of a new finance minister with good record of performance.” Also, speaking, the National Chairman Progressive Shareholders Association of Nigeria, Mr. Boniface Okezies, said, “Though her resignation long overdue, as the scandal has lingered for months, Nigerians have issues with her non-performance and the economy is not doing well. She has been on the saddle as the minister of finance, and now she is resigning almost four years to the end of the administration. For me, it is coming late. She should have resigned earlier having non-capacity to run the ministry. But unfortunately, we can’t blame it on her alone because the person that appointed her should have known that she doesn’t have the capacity to run the ministry. “Since she has decided to go, let her go so that we can bring someone who can run the place because the capital market is down the drain. Her resignation is a welcome development for the country to move forward. 