Francis Kadiri The national leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Muhammadu Buhari administration has been urged to guard against the antics of non-performing lawmakers whose failures are denting the image of the party in their constituencies. This appeal was made by an Abuja-based socio-cultural group established for the development of Gwaram, Jigawa State, Gwaram Abuja Residents Association (GARA). The group said that if the Adams Oshiomole-led leadership of the APC grants automatic return tickets to some members like Senator Sabo Nakudu representing Jigawa Central Senatorial District and Hon. Yuguda Hassan Killa representing Gwaram Federal Constituency, the party risks losing the support it enjoyed from the people of Gwaram. The chairman of the association, Alhaji Hamza Muhammad made this known in a media chat in Abuja commended the Governor Abubakar Badaru’s administration’s efforts to develop Jigawa State but insisted that the lawmakers have failed to fulfill their roles, citing their inability to ensure budgetary provision for establishment of critical infrastructure in the state as reasons. He noted that the people of Jigawa Central Senatorial District are not happy about the insensitivity of Senator Nakudu and Hon. Killa, stating that they are not able to do for Gwaram what some other lawmakers are doing for their constituencies especially the ability to lobby for the inclusion of critical infrastructure as federal projects to be executed in the benefit of Gwaram. While he noted that politics is essentially to bring benefit to the electorate, he said it was shocking and disappointing that the incumbent lawmakers who have failed woefully are now seeking automatic return tickets. Comr. Hamza warned that although the APC enjoys the goodwill and support of the people of Gwaram and entire Jigawa, but noted that if the incumbent lawmakers who have failed are given automatic return tickets, it will dent the image of the APC in the constituencies. “We seriously searched for credible alternatives who will undo the underdevelopment inflicted on Gwaram by the incumbent lawmakers, he said, adding that Alh Abba Suleiman who has demonstrated inspiring commitment to the development of Gwaram and Jigawa State should have been convinced to oust incumbent lawmakers through a free and fair democratic process. So, we commend Adams Oshiomole for the political regeneration he is already instituting in the APC by advocating for the participation of the masses in the determination of their political destiny via direct primaries. He said it is disheartening that budgetary allocation meant for the establishment of Gwaram power substation was used for the establishment of power substation in constituencies which have committed senators and representatives. “While we have absolute confidence in the administration of Jigawa State governor, we have lost confidence in our lawmakers at the federal level and therefore passed votes of no confidence on them.  