   … Says they were treated as strangers in APC Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Yakubu Dogara, has explained that he left the All Progressives Congress (APC), because some of them were treated like strangers in the party. Speaking when he submitted his nomination and expression of interest forms at the PDP secretariat in Abuja, he also noted that the APC’s initial agenda of bringing positive change to Nigeria had been thwarted by “the rebelliously wayward sense of entitlement of some people.” It would be recalled that last week, his constituents purchased the PDP nomination and expression of interest forms for him and urged him to dump the ruling party following high level of injustice meted against them in Bauchi state. Denouncing the notion that he left for PDP because he was not sure of securing a return ticket in the 2019 elections, Hon Dogara said he was moved to defect because he could not continue to function within a system that his conscience was not in alignment with and where he was not welcome. He added that he was one of the drafters of PDP’s first constitution, and that the party is a place where he feels the dream of making Nigeria better for all can be achieved.  Hon Dogara said, “For some of us who are here who are wondering, because it has been said that I cannot move from where I was to, perhaps, any other political party, that discussion has been ongoing, so today’s event marks the end of all speculations.”  “To begin with, I was a founding member of this party, which is what a lot of people do not know. I worked with Professor Yohanna Madaki of blessed memory, as a junior counsel, and we helped to put together the first PDP Constitution. For anybody who doubts that, I have the rough working sheets with me today, I can produce it. So, this is home to me but on account of certain developments, I had to leave the party for another party for Nigeria’s nationhood, then believing that we were teaming with spirited people to build a new Nigeria.” He dared anyone who has boasted of retiring him from politics to meet him on election ground at Bogoro/Dass/Tafawa Balewa Federal Constituency. 