For many residents of Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital, Monday, September 10, 2018 was a day none of them would forget in a hurry. The people of Lafia Local Government Area woke up that morning without any foreboding of the disaster that was lurking in the atmosphere around the filling station located along the Lafia-Jos Road highway and which would later envelop the area with grief and gnashing of teeth, leaving a large number of casualties of both the dead and the seriously injured all over the place. A tanker was discharging gas at the station located in the town when, suddenly, there was a simultaneous explosion and outbreak of fire, which consumed people and property within its long reach, as it raged!  At first, residents and travelers caught unawares by the raging inferno had thought it was the beginning of the Biblical Armageddon. The commotion and confusion that followed the explosion and outbreak of balls of flames was like one of the end of the world scenarios that had been prophesied in the Holy Books. By the time the raging inferno was brought under control, the heat cooled off and the smouldering smoke began to drift off, no fewer than 15 persons had been killed and about 40 others sustained various degrees of life-threatening injuries. Also, no fewer than nine vehicles, including two fuel tankers, eight motorcycles and three tricycles were caught in the raging inferno and consumed along with their occupants. Our correspondent gathered that the incident occurred when a gas leakage from one of the reservoirs at the gas station suddenly caught the attention of some motorists, who, in an attempt to escape from the unfurling danger, collided with the rider of a Bajaj motorcycle, resulting in the spark, which ignited the inferno that in its rage consumed everything on sight, including human beings and property. At the end of the disaster, the Casualty Unit of the Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospit, Lafia, was strewn with the burnt bodies of the victims of the gas explosion, as medical personnel of the facility battled to save their lives.   Family members of the victims, relations and sympathisers besieged the hospital premises in their hundreds to identify their loved ones, who were killed in the inferno and render some help to the injured after they were conveyed to the facility by the officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps from the scene of the explosion. A sympathiser, Ibrahim Mushasha, told our correspondent at the entrance to the Casualty Unit of DASH that, so far, over 50 victims, who sustained varying degrees of burn had been brought into the unit for emergency attention to save their lives, while others were rushed to some private hospitals in the state capital. Mushasha said, “They were brought in unconsciously naked as their bodies were burnt as they struggled in the anguish. However, we have yet to ascertain the number of those who died in the inferno as the dead bodies are still being counted. “Some of the victims were caught up in the inferno, as they were plying the Lafia-Abuja road, especially some students of the Nasarawa State Polytechnic, Lafia, who were going to school for lectures, as well as persons travelling on that road as at the time of the gas explosion,” he said. A female medical personnel attending to the victims at the Casualty Unit of the hospital declined to comment on the number of casualties so far brought into the unit for treatment, when our correspondent sought to know. She, however, said that the immediate concern of the officials and other personnel of the hospital was to save life first. Also, an officer with the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps on duty at the unit declined to comment, saying that it was only personnel from the unit that could talk to the press on the
incident. Some of the eyewitnesses of the disaster, who spoke with our correspondent, said most of the victims were caught up in the inferno while traveling along the Lafia-Jos highway, especially students of the Nasarawa State Polytechnic, Lafia, who were going to school for their normal lectures and passersby, who were around the filing
station at the 