The Directorate of State Service (DSS) has appealed to the general public and the media that it should not be drawn into a collision with the Federal Government.
In a press release signed by its Spokesperson, Peter Afunanya refuted the speculations in a section of the media that its acting Director-General, Mathew Seiyefa, may be removed and the dismissed boss, Lawal Daura recalled because the former reportedly carried out a re-organization without the clearance and approval of the Presidency.
According to him, the several speculations making the rounds in the media on some internal affairs of the Service, to say the least, are unhealthy for the Service and indeed, Nigeria. “The DSS has undoubtedly remained a committed Service with focus on the stability and security of the nation. Over the years, the Service has been known to be both a strategic stabilizer and a unifying factor in the Nigerian project.  It therefore deserves and desires to be focused and supported by all stakeholders to play the expected role in a democracy. Only a professionally driven DSS can support and consolidate Nigeria’s democracy. Though Intelligence Services world over operate covertly, it is also held accountable in a democratic practice. To accomplish this, they design strategic alliances with partners and stakeholders. The media is one of such partners.  Held in utmost respect, the media is called upon to report issues of national security with caution to avoid a breach of peace. No deliberate effort should be made by self serving interests to bring the Service to ridicule. No country or its media can afford to undermine their own security forces because of the dire consequences that portends.The Service, as an institution of Government will continue to carry out legitimate orders; support democratic institutions; respect the rule of law and protect the citizens in line with global practices and Standard Operations Procedures (SOPs) in Intelligence gathering and law enforcement.”
He called on dark forces not  to bring the Service into a collision with the Government it is meant to diligently serve. “The Service is undaunted and will pursue noble goals only meant to uphold integrity in security and intelligence governance.  This is a global trend for accountability. Its personnel across the Commands and Formations have been enjoined to be calm, loyal and united in the discharge of their duties as the Service has remained of the few Institutions in the country that has exhibited unquestionable oneness and commonality of purpose in advancing the interest of the Nation.” He concluded. 