The President, Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, NSCIA and the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, has called on all Nigerians, irrespective of faith or tribe, to always promote peace wherever they find themselves. He gave the advice recently during the presentation of Staff of Office to Sheikh Abou-Nolla as Lagos’ 10th Chief Imam. He also enjoined Sheikh Abou-Nolla to promote peace and harmony, not only in Lagos but in the country at large. The Sultan, represented by NSCIA’s Deputy-President and the President of Muslim Ummah of South-West Nigeria, MUSWEN, Alhaji Sakariyau Babalola, advised the Chief Imam to work for the progress of Islam and enjoined congregation to redouble their efforts in the propagation of Islam and entrenchment of peaceful and harmonious relationship among religious adherents in the
state. His Eminence also lauded the appointment of the new Chief Imam, expressing confidence in his capacity to relate well with the Muslim community in Lagos. Lagos Central Mosque Executive Council Chairman, Sheikh AbdulHafeez Abou presented the Chief Imam with his staff of
office. Abou was supported by the vice-chairman and Bashorun of Lagos, Alhaji Sikiru Alabi Macfoy, Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dr AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef and Alhaji Femi Okunnu, among others. Represented by his Deputy, Dr Idiat Adebule, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode said the state recognised the role of Muslims in the peace and harmony being enjoyed in the state and described spiritual leaders as development partners in the effort to bring greater progress and prosperity to the state. “Your contributions have greatly aided government’s efforts in the delivery of services and dividends of democracy to the people, especially those at the grassroots. Your roles in raising awareness and influencing attitudes, behaviours and practices, have also helped us to enjoy relative peace in the state,” he said. Sheikh Abou, in his welcome address, described the Chief Imam as an erudite scholar and a well-cultured personality. He called for support for him, to enable him discharge his responsibility
well. In his lecture, Muslim Community of Lagos State, MCLS’ President, Prof. Tajudeen Gbadamosi urged the faithful to respect the Chief Imam as his installation was divine. 60 newly turbaned title holders in the state were urged to justify the confidence reposed in them. Some of those decorated were Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as Asiwaju Adinni of Lagos, Governor Rauf Aregbesola as Waziri Adinni and Alhaja Muinat Alake Sopeyin-Akande as Iya
Suna. 