 Haulat Afolabi  The Federal Inland Revenue Service is set to review all tax laws in Nigeria with a view to maintaining a high degree of self-assessment and voluntary agreement by taxpayers. As part of the review process, the agency is set to commence the audit of taxpayers across the country. The nationwide audit would ensure increased tax revenue collection, improved service delivery to taxpayers and enhanced voluntary compliance. Executive Chairman of FIRS, Mr. Tunde Fowler, stated this recently while delivering a keynote address at a stakeholders’ meeting on “Tax Administration and National Revenue”. The stakeholders’ meeting was aimed at charting the way forward in the country’s tax administration and the challenges hindering a robust tax regime. Fowler, who is also the Chairman of the Joint Tax Board, said that the board was determined to improve services to taxpayers at all levels. According to him, a consolidated Taxpayer Identification Number database was already in place under the JTB. He added that taxpayers and stakeholders should support tax authorities in the interest of national development. “Studies, however, show that the extent to which an economy is able to grow sustainably and develop depends to a large extent on its ability to generate tax revenue to finance its expenditure and the efficiency of its tax system. “The questions that arise from these simple statements include how to identify areas of non-compliance, How to measure the level of non-compliance, and how to address non-compliance,’’ Fowler said. The tax expert explained that FIRS had put in place various strategies to curtail non-compliance to improve tax revenue collection on a sustainable basis. “Well-designed taxpayer services, education programmes, and creative measures can facilitate self-assessment and compliance,’’ Fowler said.   FG unveils interest-free loan scheme for traders Haulat Afolabi  The Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, has unveiled the FCT TraderMoni programme, a collateral and interest-free loan scheme initiated by the Federal Government to assist petty traders across the country. Osinbajo said the scheme is aimed at spreading prosperity and reducing poverty, especially for petty traders, irrespective of their socio-political background. Spokesman to the Vice President, Laolu Akande, Osinbajo, in a statement, quoted the Osinbajo as saying that the programme is part of the Social Investment Programme of the Buhari administration. He explained that it has been launched in Lagos, Kano, Katsina, Abia, Osun States and would be extended, in quick succession, to traders in all the states of the federation by the end of 2018. Speaking to traders at the Utako market shortly after witnessing the disbursement of funds to beneficiaries, the Vice President said every petty trader was eligible to benefit from the scheme and urged petty traders across the country to take advantage of the scheme to improve their businesses. “This programme is for the petty traders selling in the markets, it is not for bigger traders. It is for the petty traders to improve their businesses. “For now, we are giving you N10, 000, if you pay back in six months or less, you will get another N15, 000. We want to encourage petty traders so that they can have sufficient amount to improve their businesses,” he stated. He assured beneficiaries that the amount given to them would be increased if they paid back their loans within the stipulated period, adding that President Muhammadu Buhari himself was interested in the welfare of the traders. “The one we did before was for big traders under the GEEP programme, we gave them as much as N100, 000. If you do well with this one, we are giving you now, we will increase the amount. “Everybody can benefit from this scheme; the President himself has said that he wants to make sure that those who are selling small items in the markets benefit from this programme. “When we give you this money, we want you to pay back and no interest is involved”, he added. Earlier on arrival at the market, Prof. Osinbajo went round interacting with petty traders before he proceeded to address traders who had thronged the access roads around the market to receive him. 