The 81 Division of the Nigerian Army (NA), has commenced its annual inter-brigade sports competition on Wednesday(12 th  2018) held at the Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai Sport Complex, Ikeja Army Cantonment. The inter-brigade sport competition were drawn from army formation under 81 division and these include; 45 Army Engineering Brigade, (Lagos), 35 Artillery Brigade, (Abeokuta) ,  9 Brigade (Ikeja)  and 81 division Garrison(Lagos.) The four day  inter-brigade sport competition that will be closing on Saturday(15 th , 2018)  same venue competed for football,  Combat Race, Table Tennis, half marathon and Volley ball. The General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division, Nigerian Army, Major General Musa Sani Yusuf, who officially declared the event open watched the match pass, jogging  and the first half of the football match by the competing  formations with the 35 Artillery  brigade leading in three goals while 45 Army Engineering brigade  yet to score. The emerged winner from group A will play with the group B on Saturday for the grand finale at the same sports complex. General Yusuf said that, “today I enjoin you all  to embark on assiduous training as a formation, unit as it is key in attaining any desired goals as encapsulated in the Chief of Army Staff(COAS)’s Lt. General Tukur Buratai “s vision which is “To have a professionally Responsive Nigerian Army in the discharge  of its constitutional roles. “The competition is organised with the primary goal of not onlyC encouraging comradeship but directed at accessing physical and mental fitness of troops, where the selected sport men and women wil represent the division in the forthcoming Nigerian Army Tournament. “It will offer opportunity to source for capable men and women to for formidable team for the division in the forthcoming Nigerian Army Sports Tournament holding in Cross Rivers State in October. “The events to be competed for are Football, Volley ball, Table Tennis, Combat Race and half-marathon, and these events were selected to ensure discipline, physical and mental fitness as well as combat efficiency of the officers as individuals and formation as a whole “The initiative was in compliance with Army headquarters forecast of event to encourage spirit of sportsmanship, comradeship and military as teamwork.” Earlier, the Commander 9 Brigade, Brigadier General Moundhey Gadzama Ali said, “the brigade has gone extra miles in ensuring the successful hosting of this tournament by resurfacing the Volleyball 