… It’s a lame excuse for failure – ADC … He should go back to Daura – SDP … Mass defection looms still in APC … As aggrieved aspirants shop for affordable platforms AYO ESAN and ADELEKE ADESANYA Presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, has blamed those he described as ‘political forces’ for the frustration of the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari at tackling the security and other challenges in Nigeria. Adesina, who spoke in an exclusive interview with The Point, at the weekend in Abuja, said, though the Federal Government was on top of the security situation, with the full capacity to deal with the problems, some of the problems that seem intractable actually go beyond what the ordinary Nigerian can see. “The government has the capacity to deal with those problems. Those that seem intractable are also due to the fact that it goes beyond what we see. There are some hidden hostile hands that are involved underground. You have genuine criminality, criminals who are at work. We also have political criminality, the weight of political forces are using the so-called criminals for political ends. To them, it is the struggle for power and all is well in war. That is the way they see it,” he said. The presidential spokesman, while reacting to a question on the three major promises Buhari made to Nigerians on assumption of office three years ago, maintained that the President had delivered on his promises. Buhari had promised to work assiduously on economic reforms, tackling insecurity and the anti-corruption war on assumption of office in 2015. Adesina said, “The APC administration, headed by President Muhammadu Buhari, made those three pledges – that we will secure the country, we will fight corruption and we will revive the economy. “The President keeps repeating that you can’t manage a country you haven’t secured and that is why security is number one priority. Remember that right from the day he was inaugurated, he spoke about ending the Boko Haram insurgency and directed that the Command Centre be moved to Maiduguri, which was like the hotbed of the insurgency then. “Between 2015 and now, we have seen the difference. The insurgency may not have been totally annihilated, but the difference between 2015 and now is like a difference between heaven and hell.” He, however, said there were some other challenges the President had also been dealing with. “There are other challenges – kidnapping, robbery, herdsmen/farmers clashes – they are all there; but one thing you can’t deny this government is that it is able to solve all those problems and it is on top of them; those problems would become things of the past,” he said. Adesina, however, assured that Buhari would win the 2019 presidential election, saying his boss had fulfilled the three promises he made to Nigerians, in spite of the frustration from the political forces. But a northern leader and National Vice Chairman of Social Democratic Party, Dr. Junaid Mohammed, countered Adesina’s claims in a separate interview with The Point. Junaid maintained that the All Progressives Congress and President Buhari would definitely not come back in 2019, considering the manner in which the insecurity issue was badly handled by them. According to the SDP chieftain, President Buhari has performed badly and this will affect his chances of returning to power in 2019. “If a leader performs badly, especially with serious matters threatening the economy, it will adversely affect his chances…I believe that they have not done well enough for them to be re-elected. In fact, in a normal democratic dispensation, we are supposed to send him packing to his village in Daura because he has failed in all ramifications. Nigeria is now a den of criminals and there is nothing this government is doing,” Junaid told The Point. The National Chairman, African Democratic Congress, Chief Ralphs Nwosu, however, said that the President and his men should refrain from insulting Nigerians, adding that a results-oriented government should not be giving excuses for failure at a time they are seeking re-election. “That is a lame excuse for failure. Everyone knows that this government has failed woefully. Nigerians have never had it this bad. We should say it as it is. There is pain, anger everywhere and the President has not shown that he has the right capacity to lead a country as complex as Nigeria,” he said. APC: Mass defection looms still Meanwhile, there are fresh indications that more APC members are set to look for political comfort under other platforms as the confusion and controversies trailing the party’s decision on the system to adopt in choosing its candidates for the various elective offices in the 2019 general elections, snowball into a major dilemma. This, according to insider sources, has resulted in the threat by aggrieved aspirants and other party faithful to defect from the party, en masse, in protest. Indirect primaries may tear party apart Our correspondents gathered that the choice given to the state chapters of the party to adopt either the direct or indirect system of primaries had led many state chapters into opting for indirect primaries, otherwise referred to as collegiate system, where delegates would be allowed to pick candidates for the election. This, the aggrieved aspirants alleged, would allow the state governors to influence the choice of candidates. Exorbitant nomination fees, ploy to edge us out – Aggrieved aspirants Some of the APC aspirants complained to our correspondents about what they described as the exorbitant nomination fees for elective offices, claiming that they could not afford the fees as reviewed. They also alleged that the high fees were fixed deliberately to edge them out of the race by the party leadership. Following initial protests over the high fees, the APC National Executive Committee had pegged the presidential nomination form at N40 million and Expression of Interest form at N5 million, totalling N45m. For governorship, the party fixed the nomination form at N22.5 million while expression of interest is N2.5 million. As for the Senate, the nomination form is fixed at N7 million while the expression of interests costs N1 million. Nomination for the House of Representatives, however, costs N3.5 million while the expression of interest form is N350, 000. As for the state House of Assembly, the nomination form costs N750, 000 while the expression of interest is fixed at N100, 000. However, some of the aspirants who spoke with The Point described the nomination fees structure as simply unacceptable, saying most of them could not still raise the new fees. They claimed to have spent a lot in sensitising party members of their aspirations. The Point learnt that many of the aspirants had begun a search for other political parties where they could realise their aspirations. APC youths kick Most vocal in condemning the high nomination fees are the young members of the APC, most of whom have just left tertiary institutions and are banking on the Not-Too-Young-To-Rule Law, recently signed by President Muhammadu Buhari to allow them participate in the 2019 general elections. Most of them felt that the APC NEC might be using the high fees to exclude them from the elections. Also, the indirect primaries being adopted by most state chapters has alienated most aspirants, who are not in the good book of their governors. A House of Representatives member from Lagos State, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, confirmed to our correspondent that if the party leadership should insist on the exorbitant fees rolled out, there would be mass defection. “The price is nothing but discouraging for aspirants. Where are they expected to see such money? We are not going there to loot the treasury. We want to serve our people, so we must not be discouraged from doing that. If they are not turning back on this, then a lot of people will find their ways into other parties where their dreams can be encouraged,” he said. However, APC Chairman, Ekiti State, Chief Jide Awe, while speaking with our correspondent, said the leadership of the party was ready to review the fees. “The President has said they should review the cost of the ticket. He said this during our last meeting,” he noted. Speaking on the allegation that the high fee was purposely meant to edge the youths out of the race, Awe said, “The youths have not been sidelined; the youths should come out to contest. We believe that the youths are a strong fragment of our party. For that, we take them very important in all we do. Like I have said earlier, the leadership of the party will definitely review the price of the forms. I know that discussions are ongoing on it.” But confirming the defection plan of the aggrieved aspirants who are alleging being short-changed by the ruling APC, the National Publicity Secretary of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, had said that his party had concluded discussions with six APC governors and 27 other members of the ruling party in the National Assembly to defect to the PDP. Ologbondiyan said the planned defectors had secured the mandates of their constituents to make the move ahead of the 2019 general elections. ADC’ll benefit from crisis – Osinowo Also speaking on the issue, the Ogun State Chairman of the African Democratic Congress, Dr. Gbolade Osinowo, said handpicking of candidates by the APC governors through indirect primaries might lead to crisis and defection of some members, saying, “definitely in Ogun State, ADC is going to be a beneficiary.” Though another source in the APC told our correspondent that the decision of the party’s leadership on the nomination fees was purposely to allow only financially-capable members to be at the helm of government affairs, a governorship aspirant from Ogun State, Senator Adegbenga Kaka, has kicked against the high costs of nomination and expression of interest forms. “As a party, we want people who are capable; and what we are asking for is reasonable in the circumstance. Even Mr President (Muhammadu Buhari) has expressed his reservations about the cost of the forms,” the APC source said. But Kaka condemned the high fees imposed on the APC aspirants as he called for a downward review of the cost of the governorship nomination form. “As a progressive party, the APC should not deprive those who have something meaningful to contribute to the party and the society at large,” he said. Defections won’t affect our chances – Oshiomhole While The Point gathered that the APC leadership was bent on sticking to the proposed fee structure for the nomination forms at all levels, the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has said severally that defections will have no effect on the party’s chances in the 2019 general elections. Indirect primaries, breeding ground for corruption – Shehu Sani In Kaduna State, Senator Shehu Sani, who was persuaded by the APC National Chairman, Oshiomhole, to remain in the party when he was about to defect, has also criticised the adoption of indirect primaries in Kaduna, describing the system as a breeding ground for corruption. Senator Sani and Governor Nasir el-Rufai are not in good terms and in an indirect primary system, it will be difficult for Sani to get a second term from delegates that may be influenced by the governor. The Point gathered that the same scenario is also playing out in Ogun State where the senator representing Ogun Central, Senator Olanrewaju Tejuoso, who was also persuaded from leaving the party, may find it difficult returning to the Senate in an indirect primaries that had been adopted by the APC in Ogun State. In fact, it was gathered that the state governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, had indicated interest in Tejuoso’s seat to represent Ogun Central in the Senate. Though it was gathered that Tejuoso, Sani and many other National Assembly members might be heading to new parties to realise their ambition, The Point could not confirm this when filing this report. APC’s constitution allows indirect primaries – Vice Chair Meanwhile, the APC leadership in the North Central zone has assured that the divergent decisions on the system to adopt in determining the party’s flag bearers in each state will not in any way lead to a crisis in the party. Already, more states, including Katsina, Kaduna and Imo have signified their intention to adopt the indirect primaries system. Speaking with our correspondent exclusively, the National Vice Chairman of the party (North Central), Zakari Ede, said the party’s constitution had already given room for the decision of the states. He added that the leadership of the ruling party had not in any way made it compulsory for its chapters across the state to adopt a particular system. “Whichever one they take is in tandem with APC constitution. The APC constitution has allowed for three forms of primary election. One, the affirmation; two, direct; three, indirect primary system. Whichever one you take, you didn’t flout the constitution. So, I don’t think we will have any problem with that. It is just in the fulfillment of the provisional constitution of our party,” he said. 