The Federal Government has reacted to the report of former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar’s depiction of President Muhammadu Buhari as an “uncompromising” and a “power-drunk” retired general, saying Buhari can be said to be uncompromising on issue of fighting corruption and ensuring accountability but not power drunk. This was made known in a statement signed by Mr. Femi Adesina, the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity. Adesina stated that while Buhari is uncompromising against corruption, he is not power-drunk. Atiku was quoted to have made the comment critical of President Buhari in an AFP report. The report saw Atiku expressing fear about the forthcoming general elections which he said might not be free and fair under Buhari. Atiku described Buhari as “very uncompromising, power drunk; (and) who will not be ready to leave power without a fight.” According to Adesina, the former VP was only trying to use Buhari’s name to buoy his bid to get the presidential ticket of the PDP, which he said was still mourning the defeat it suffered in the 2015 election. “Rather than use the name of President Buhari to buoy his bid to get the presidential ticket of a party, whose flag has been flying at half-mast since it got roundly trounced at the polls in 2015, the former Vice President needs be told that the President is truly uncompromising, but only when it comes to looting the common patrimony of Nigerians, and squandering their riches. “President Buhari is uncompromising in the quest to restore probity and accountability to public office. He is uncompromising in cleaning the rot Nigeria was consigned into pre-2015, thus the war against corruption is being fought without fear or favour. “The President is equally resolute in the determination to ensure that Nigeria is no longer a mono-economy, depending only on oil. Yes, President Buhari is serious-minded in effecting change in every area of Nigerian life. So, Alhaji Abubakar is right, if that was what he meant by the President being “uncompromising. But power drunk? No! And being a man “who will not be ready to leave power without a fight?” Never! That is why they will invest him with power again next year, knowing that he won’t misuse or misapply what has been entrusted to him. The people don’t want a fight. It is some political leaders we must beseech to eschew pugnacity and mind their language.” Adesina concluded. 