 … 18 per hour … FG, WHO appeal for private sector support Angela Onwuzoo Indications have emerged that except something urgent and proactive is done to arrest the situation, Tuberculosis, popularly known as TB, would kill more Nigerians, including children…more than the current 18 deaths recorded every hour from the infectious disease in the country. Figures from the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Programme show that Nigeria records 432 deaths daily from tuberculosis, which amounts to 18 deaths per hour, a colossal loss of lives that stakeholders say was quite avoidable. These staggering statistics have earned Nigeria second position as country with the largest burden of TB in Africa and seventh in the world, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), despite the fact that TB is preventable and curable. According to WHO, every hour, 47 Nigerians develop active TB, seven of whom are children, resulting in 154, 000 deaths every year. With 432 Nigerians dying every day from TB, it is obvious that TB deaths were higher than the number of deaths recorded in Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen’s attacks in the North East, yet, government pays more attention to insurgency than to TB control. To change the narrative in the war against tuberculosis in the country, experts say this could be achieved through increased awareness creation and private sector participation, stressing that it was time too for TB patients to ignore stigma and come out for treatment and become champions in TB advocacy, having been cured of the infectious disease. Assuring TB patients that treatment is free in Nigeria and curable when detected early, the experts urged those who have been coughing for over two weeks or more to go for TB screening in a standard healthcare facility operated by trained medical personnel. According to them, if the approach adopted in the fight against HIV/AIDS was replicated in the fight against tuberculosis, a situation where HIV patients came out boldly to access treatment, talked about it and also encouraged others infected with the virus to embrace treatment through awareness creation, the story would also change for the better for tuberculosis. For the private sector, including banks, oil and gas industry, telecoms, among others, stakeholders in TB control in the country want them to come in by addressing the funding gaps in TB treatment, prevention and diagnosis through their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) projects, especially now that foreign aids are dwindling. Hence, operators of the private sector have been asked to borrow a leaf from the initiative of Chevron/Agbami partners on the establishment of well-equipped TB diagnostic and treatment centres across the country. Tuberculosis, experts say, is an infectious disease caused by bacteria known as mycobacterium tuberculosis and is passed from person to person through the air. The most frequent symptoms of TB include cough of two weeks or more that negates treatment, weight loss, night sweat and loss of appetite. Speaking at the National Summit on Public Private Mix (PPM) for TB Control, jointly organised in Lagos by the Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH), WHO, Lagos State Government, Stop TB Partnership Nigeria, the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, said the Federal Government was committed to the fight against tuberculosis but, however, cannot do it alone. Adewole said: “To achieve our goal of ending TB epidemic by 2030, additional support and effort are required. We require active involvement of private healthcare providers and corporate organisations to make Nigeria free of TB.” Suggesting other ways to tackle the disease, the Minister said: “Having being on the field, I think there are things we can learn from the fight against HIV. When HIV first started, the first set of individuals who came up openly to say they had HIV were celebrities. But what really created breakthrough for the world, was that those infected were able to chest out and say yes, ‘I have HIV’. “So, in the same way, people with TB should own up and become TB champions by coming out boldly without fear of stigmatization to embrace treatment. We must join hands and break the stigma enveloping TB patients and, until we do this, people will not come out for treatment,” he admonished. In her presentation, Coordinator, National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Programme, Dr. Adebola Lawanson, said the TB prevalence rate in Nigeria was alarming, with many undiagnosed people around. “TB kills more people than plane crash and, if we can put in place measures to safeguard the aviation industry, we need to checkmate the spread of the scourge,” she said. According to her, there are over 300,000 undiagnosed TB patients, even as three out of four patients are not on treatment. She added that of the total 400,000 patients in the country, only 100,000 were reported. She explained further that each of the undiagnosed TB patients was capable of infecting 10 to 15 people. WHO Country Representative, Dr Wondimagegnehu Alemu, in his remarks, called on the private sector to support in finding the remaining 300,000 undiagnosed patients, which the health sector is still missing. Alemu, who was represented at the event by Acting Coordinator, Non Communicable Diseases Cluster, WHO, Dr Linda Ozor, said it was imperative to engage corporate organisations and private health institutions, and get them to key into TB control as one of their corporate social responsibilities. “More worrisome is the fact that every hour, 18 Nigerians die of the disease, which is preventable and curable. There is need to expand quality TB diagnostic coverage nationwide, both optimisation of the existing GeneXpert diagnostic machine (390) and adding more,” he advised. On his part, Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Dr Jide Idris, identified key areas of support by the private sector in the TB control to include sponsoring bill boards, branding of BRT buses, sponsoring of radio and TV jingles, documentaries for awareness creation, procuring additional GeneXpert machines, among others. Also speaking in his presentation, which focused on promoting PPM collaboration for TB control, Board Chairman, Stop TB Partnership Nigeria, Prof Lovett Lawson, stressed the need for all hands to be on deck to defeat tuberculosis. She revealed that TB is the highest cause of death amongst infectious diseases. Warning that the disease is in the air and is no respecter of anyone, Lawson noted that its transmission could only be stopped when suspected persons were tested and treated, adding that it had become more urgent for suspected individuals to go for diagnoses and treatment, with the emergence of Multi-drug Resistant TB (MDR-TB).    Lack of exercise poses physical, mental risk – Researchers Angela Onwuzoo The World Health Organisation says insufficient physical activity is a leading risk factor for non-communicable disease, negatively impacting mental health and overall quality of life. A newly released study, published in The Lancet Global Health journal, recently, highlighted the well-established benefits of being physically active, including a lower risk of cardiovascular disease, hypertension and diabetes, as well as breast and colon cancer. Additionally, physical activity has positive effects on mental health; can delay the onset of dementia and help people maintain a healthy weight, the WHO study revealed. The study’s lead author, Regina Guthold of WHO, Switzerland, warned that more adults are lagging behind the recommended levels of physical activity required for a healthy life. “Unlike other major global health risks, levels of insufficient physical activity are not falling worldwide, on average, and over a quarter of all adults are not reaching the recommended levels of physical activity for good health,” Guthold warned. The study detailed the levels of insufficient physical activity in different countries and estimated global and regional trends. The findings revealed that there has been no improvement in global levels of physical activity since 2001, and that some one-in-three women and one-in-four men, globally, are not active enough to stay healthy. Moreover, levels of insufficient physical activity are more than twice as great in high-income countries, as compared to that of low-income nations, with a five per cent increase in higher income countries between 2001 and 2016. There has been little progress in improving physical activity levels during that 15-year period, with data projecting that if these trends continue, the 2025 global activity target of a 10 per cent relative reduction in insufficient physical activity would not be met. Other main findings showed that by the end of 2016, in 55 of 168 countries, more than one-third of the population was insufficiently physically active. More than half of all adults in Kuwait, American, Samoa, Saudi Arabia and Iraq were insufficiently active, while inadequate levels elsewhere of 40 per cent appeared in the U.S., 36 per cent in the United Kingdom and 14 per cent in China. Only six per cent of adults in Uganda and Mozambique were insufficiently active – the lowest levels of all countries. The greatest levels of insufficient activity, comparing women and men, appeared in South Asia (43 versus 24 per cent), Central Asia, Middle East and North Africa (40 versus 26 per cent), and high-income Western countries (42 versus 31 per cent). “Addressing these inequalities in physical activity levels between men and women will be critical to achieving global activity targets and will require interventions to promote and improve women’s access to opportunities that are safe, affordable and culturally acceptable,” said WHO co-author Fiona Bull. The study is based on self-reported activity levels – including at work, home, and in transit, as well as during leisure time – for those aged 18 and above, from 358 population-based surveys in 168 countries, consisting of around 1.9 million people.    