… Says Federal character destroying nation’s education sector Educationist, writer and Nigeria’s first female presidential candidate, Prof. Oluremi Comfort Sonaiya, speaks with OLUWATOSIN OBAJEMU on sundry issues affecting the nation’s education sector. Excerpts: Why did you leave the education sector for politics? I realised that the politicians determine the quality of our lives and we have left our politics in the hands of terrible people who do not care for us, people who are more interested in personal gains than the common good. It struck me; that was a big mistake on our part, good people, people with integrity, people with the love for their fellow human beings should be in charge of politics and politics is a very honourable thing to engage in. It should be about seeking to solve the problem of the people. I decided to leave the university to contribute in that area. What is the view about politics among educationists like you? It is a pity that the bad system, bad governance that we have had in the nation will not let them go into politics. We can take examples from the rest of the world. If you followed the ceremony in honour of the late Senator John McCain of the United States, I watched some of the ceremonies, when you see Presidents like former President Obama. Let’s leave America now. I was at the Nigeria Bar Association Conference in Lagos last week; the President of Ghana was there and he gave a lecture. It was absolutely inspiring. Politics is good for people with competence, ability and people with concern for their people to use their resources for the benefit of everyone. I do not see how you can say people in the university should not see that.  It is because of the kind of politics that we have had in Nigeria, which is flooded with violence, night meetings and all types of corrupt practices like distributing money, vote buying and all.  So, people who are decent do not wish to associate with that. That is not what politics should be. We have evidence from other countries. What is your interest in the education sector as an aspirant? I have said that if I am to become the President, I would declare a state of emergency in the education sector. There is something seriously wrong with our education and the most evidence of it is that
we are not producing problem solvers by ourselves, we are sitting in front of our problems and looking unto other people to solve them for us. I often give the example of malaria. How come the Bill Gate Foundation is distributing mosquito nets to us in Nigeria? How come we are not the ones producing research into the diseases that are killing us- polio, malaria?  Why are we not the ones at the forefront of these things?  Yes, there are some efforts but we have this mentality of calling on others to solve our problems. We see it in our government in the south Eastern part of the country. They are looking for China to help to solve problems. Why are people graduating from our universities, colleges of education and technical colleges? We have serious problems. What are the problems you have identified in the different sectors of our education? Well, at every level, I believe that what we are doing is more of root level thing. At the primary level, we are still teaching our children timetable (2x 2). That is a useless rote learning. What we should create in our children is basic knowledge about the world and instilling in them capacity for learning, ensuring that their minds are well developed, their abilities to observe things and more. When one of my children entered the pre- school in the US, part of what they told them to do was to walk on a rope on a straight line. That is concentration and balance; this will ensure the development of the child as required. In the secondary school level, curiosity about the world should be created. How do things function in the world that we live in? What are the natural laws that govern the environment?  And so on and so forth. At the Tertiary level, we should be getting into problem solving. Why is this like this?  How can it be changed? Like this, the students are going into research and to impact on our environment in a way that will be beneficial to us. Those are some of the issues. Another general issue about education, one thing that is a serious problem, is that we are living in dual worlds. Two different worlds, that’s what I mean. You are here going to school, learning about the laws of nature, but in reality, we believe that it is the witch in our village that causes diseases. So, which one are we going to believe? If we believe that it is the witch that causes diseases, then we won’t take research into diseases seriously. We have educated people who, when they fall sick, have a different set of ideas to be the cure. How would you rate President Buhari’s performance in solving the existing problems? These problems have been here before, but it is obvious that successive leaders and this administration have not taken education seriously. We constantly have strikes, unpaid salaries with that that added to this present administration, it is shocking that they would be talking about lowering the standards of education when the world is becoming more competitive. The issue of
making admission process 160 over 400. This is crazy; not everyone should go to the university. We don’t need everyone to go to the university. We need well qualified carpenters and more. That is what happens in the developed countries as well. What is this lowering of standards? That is making us not competitive. The lack of an applicable standard that covers everyone in the country, the cut off is a different thing. When you see the cut off of someone from Imo State as 87 per cent and you put for someone from Zamfara, 20 per cent as cut off, how can you put 87 per cent candidate and 20 per cent candidate together in the same class? You are dragging the higher student back. This Federal character nonsense that we apply is now in education. Education is merit-based system all over the world. Education cannot be by Federal character and shouldn’t be by it. Why do Nigeria students perform better outside the country? I am convinced that Nigerians are smart, maybe it is because of our challenging environment. Even in this our challenging situation, some students are still very brilliant. If you throw those ones where everything is available, they will shine and do exceptionally well. We have seen Nigerians perform brilliantly in many areas, collecting awards and more. Nigerians are good. We have good quality people, but unfortunately, we stunt their growth by running a terrible system by not providing for them the enabling system that will bring out the best in all of us.  It is a big shame. What is your advice to students out there? Students should try to recognise their limitations and strive to overcome them. Luckily, they are already doing it. The internet provides for them the credible resources, which will help them
to compensate the lack and the shortcomings of our educational system. I am happy that many of them are taking advantage of that. I would like to advise on the issue of morality. We are living in a country where there is a crisis of values. Cheating and examination malpractices have become so common and rampant. The crisis we have is a crisis of morality, ethics and values. If more than half of those in our universities came in with fake results and are continuing to cheat in examinations, do you think they will likely become problem solvers? No. They do not understand the material; they have not learnt it. They are interested in the certificate alone. These are major reasons things are malfunctioning in our country. Many people who have graduated as medical doctors, they are just in the hospital killing people because they have not learnt it properly. Quote: We don’t need everyone to go to the university. We need well qualified carpenters and more. That is what happens in the developed countries, as well. What is this lowering of standards? That is making us not competitive. The lack of an applicable standard that covers everyone in the country; the cut off mark is another thing. When you see the cut off of someone from Imo State as 87 per cent and you put for someone from Zamfara, 20 per cent as cut off, how can you put 87 per cent candidate and 20 per cent candidate together in the same class? 