A traditional ruler, the Baale of Alakoto, Ajegunle, in Lagos State, Chief Musibau Oluwa, has recounted the circumstances that surrounded the sudden death of his first daughter on the last Muslim Sallah day. Oluwa disclosed to our correspondent that his 45-year-old daughter, Mrs. Raimot Ajoke Jinadu, suddenly developed a slight headache, while the Sallah day celebration was on and immediately complained to her husband. He, however, said that the headache became severe and worse, making her husband to quickly rush her to a hospital, where she later died. According to the traditional ruler, while he killed a cow and a ram at his residence at Idewu Street in Ajegunle to celebrate the sallah day, his daughter and her husband were celebrating the Muslim festival at their residence in Idumota, Lagos, before she suddenly developed the fatal headache that resulted in her death. Oluwa said his late daughter, who was a seamstress and the Vice Chairman of the Tailors Association of Nigeria, Lagos Island branch, had been responsible for his upkeep, as she always took good care of him. "My first daughter was such a good woman. She was honest and social. She never liked problems like some women, who like to fight. She was so respectful. She was the one taking care of me among all my children. She never joked with my welbeing. Her husband hails from Ikorodu in Lagos," he lamented. A neighbour, who simply identified herself as Kemi, said the late woman was her very good friend. Kemi described her death as very shocking and unbelievable. "We were close friends. Raimot was a very good Muslim. She loved everybody. She was so generous. I don't know why she died when we needed her most. Her father is the traditional ruler of this area called Alakoto, Ajegunle. I saw her recently when she came to visit her father at Idewu Street, Ajegunle. She is a grandmother. She married early in life. "She was doing a lot for her family, including her father and siblings. Her death shocked everybody. Her father is still in shock till now. People have been going to him to console him. May her soul rest in peace," she said. Another resident of the area, Mrs. Fatima Ajayi, said, "Raimot was a very good person everybody loved. Why should death snatch such a good person? Why not take the lives of the evil people, instead of a good person. Anyway, we cannot question God. "He is the decider of our fate. There is nothing anybody can do about it. I will always remember her for all the good things she had done for many people. When her death was announced to us, everybody started crying. People couldn't stop crying because of the good things she had done while on earth," she explained. 