The U.S. Ambassador to Nigeria, Stuart Symington has called on Nigerians to look inward and explore the many great opportunities that abound in the nation. He gave the advice on Friday while addressing the 48 Niger Delta Youths that just completed their six weeks training under the Presidential Amnesty Programme at Afritropic and Agro Services Limited, Utagba-UNO, Ndokwa West Local Government Area of Delta State. Afritropic and Agro Services Limited, in partnership with American-West African Agro (AWAA) Limited, has so far trained 64 Niger Delta youths in various agricultural programmes under the Amnesty Programme. According to the ambassador, Federal Government investment in the Amnesty Programme through agriculture, would positively impact the future of the country if the trainees would apply what they have learnt positively. “Take up the challenge and become responsible to themselves and the society. With the training, you could seek employment elsewhere or create one.” “I challenge you not to think about what matters next but what matters now. I want you to look for solutions, one person at a time, ask people what they are doing today, how they are doing that and what is the next step? “We have all along talked about sustainable development but I want Nigerians to think about profitable development, we talked about developing countries but Nigerians should think about opportunities in developing countries.” “You need to utilise the opportunity of the training to make Nigeria the best and peaceful nation and to explore all the opportunities in the country. The best-graduating trainee in tractor driving, Mrs Ayebaesin Isaiah, said that she participated in the programme to enable her meet her family challenges. According to her, the training will help her to achieve better future for her family. “I need government to empower us to enable us take care of our families. My advice to other youths is that they should apply wisdom and not rascality to get what they want.” 