 … Accepts PDP nomination form On Thursday, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Yakubu Dogara, stated that his ticket is his people even if he runs under zero party, his people will vote for him, as long as it is Bogoro/Dass/Tafawa Balewa constituency. He stated that truly, he has decided not to seek re-election again but even if he runs under zero party; he will win by God’s grace.  “They said they will give me ticket in APC but that I must go and beg for it. I said I do not need the ticket.” He made this known when his supporters  from Bogoro/Dass/Tafawa Balewa Federal constituency of Bauchi State, presented Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) nomination and expression of interest forms to the Speaker, urging him to leave the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). They thronged his Abuja residence, claiming they decided to present the PDP forms to him as a result of high level injustice in the APC. Hon. Mohammed Aminu Tukur, Alhaji Adamu Jambil and Mrs. Amina Saleh, who led the delegation and spoke on behalf of the of the constituents, said their new political platform is Dogara Peoples Party as they will follow him wherever he goes. In his speech, Hon Aminu Tukur said that the APC is now plagued by injustice and dictatorship, contrary to their expectations that under President Muhammadu Buhari, the party will be fair to all. Alhaji Adamu Jambil assured Dogara of their people’s love and will not allow APC to embarrass him.  In his response, Dogara assured them that he will listen to their voices. “Some people said they will retire us from politics and have even started celebrating that they have buried us politically. But throughout all this, I remained unperturbed because I knew that we had our people with us.” “I have a lot of supporters in the APC but I have not told any of them what I intend to do or where I will go because I was not given the opportunity but I will assure you that wherever you want me to go or whatever you want me to do I will obey you because you have been with me. This is leadership. “Even when they were talking about reconciliation in APC, we told them that even if I will be given free ticket in APC, so long as they do not do justice to Senator Sulieman Nazif, Senator Isa Hamma Misau, Hon. Ahmed Yerima, Hon. Aminu Tukur, Hon. Maryam Bagel and others, I will not accept it. I even said that if they will do justice to these people I will be satisfied. “You have now given us another opportunity to correct the greatest mistake we did in politics, which was to bring this present government in Bauchi State. This is one of the reasons we must run for election and do away with this plague, chase these termites from Bauchi State. “I will not disobey you but before I fill these forms, I will have to inform all my supporters in the APC about the decision taken by my constituents since all politics is local.” 