… Lagos First Lady, Women Journalists unite against drug, substance abuse Oluwatosin Obajemu Worried about the impact of drug and substance abuse in our society, the Nigeria Association of Women Journalists, Lagos State Chapter, the Lagos State First Lady and other stakeholders, have expressed concern over the rising cases of the menace, calling for a concerted effort from all stakeholders to tackle it. Wife of the Lagos State Governor, Mrs. Bolanle Ambode, said the family, being the foundation of the society, must not be allowed to be destroyed by drug and substance abuse, adding the family remains critical to national development. According to her, the family unit is the core and foundation of the Society. “All nations and societies emerged from the pulling together of existing families. If we get it right at the family level, surely it will be well at the state and national levels.”
Speaking at the 2018 Family Week Seminar of Women Journalists, Lagos Chapter, which had the theme, “Ensuring a Saner Society: Playing Our Roles”, Ambode, who was represented by Mrs. Mosunmola Ogunleye, said, “As we all know, the family unit is the core and foundation of the Society. However, what is currently playing out in our society especially as it concerns the youths, leaves a sour taste in the mouth. This makes your theme for the programme a most relevant one.”
Ambode further said, “We must sincerely do our motherly duties well as coordinators of the family because it is a divinely assigned responsibility given to us by God to take care of our children and homes. It is a broad and encapsulating one.
“Our duty to the children is not just giving them food, clothing and educating them, it goes beyond that. We must have a good relationship with our children to enable us know when they are going through peer pressure and making life choices in order to properly educate them”
Hampering on the dangers of drug abuse among youths, the First Lady added that parents especially mothers, have a role to play in educating the youths that drug and substance abuse could destroy their life and future, commending the Lagos State Women Journalists in Lagos for organising the seminar, describing it as timely. Delivering her lecture, the Country Director, Ipas Nigeria, Barrister Hauwa Shekarau urged all to speak up against the Global Gag Rule recently signed by Donald Trump which was a policy guiding NGOs who sought fund from the US government. The policy, she said is a barrier to these NGOs who wish to render medical assistance in health and reproductive rights issues.
“Last year, President Donald Trump signed this policy and what he did was to change the parameter of this Global Gag Rule. It is a US policy that prevents foreign NGOs that receive US global health assistance from using either the received funds or any other fund to provide abortion services, counselling or referrals regarding abortion.”
She noted that the policy restricted so many things. “If it was only the issue of abortion, it would have not been a problem, but the issue is that the rule requires foreign NGOs to sign the policy before they can assist.
“If you must carry out interventions regarding HIV/AIDs, Tuberculosis, Malaria, Maternal and Childcare, Family Planning and Reproductive Health, Nutrition, Water Sanitation and Hygiene activities, you must sign that policy. If you do not sign it, you cannot assess the funds but I am glad that the major topic for this seminar is ensuring a saner society.
Shekarau said the assistance needed to ensure a saner society is limited. “Particularly on drug abuse for our youths, it is a social problem which has multi-dimensional approach. However, some of the medical assistance needed to ensure a saner society, this global gag rule will not allow access to the fund that can be brought in to support this type of intervention.”
“This policy doesn’t apply to US NGOs, only foreign NGOs. Does it mean that it is only the lives of the US women and girls that are worth saving? It does not also apply to their government agencies.”
Meanwhile, the Chairperson of the professional body, Hajia Sekinah Temitope Lawal said the seminar was organized to contribute their quotato ensuring a saner society.
According to her achieving a saner society meant achieving the best of everything. Stressing the need for parental involvement in checking abuse of drugs and other substances among their children, she said that if we develop holistic approach, we will have a great nation. “Good governance is key as many of these things are affecting us, especially our youths. Good governance can get us the best of good roads, best infrastructural facilities, quality health facilities, schools among others,” Lawal explained.
“In curbing themenace of drug abuse, government can ban Codeine, Tramadol etc, but what about other things that our youths are abusing. This is why we feel that as women professionals, through our writings and various programs, we should be doing a lot more of sensitization andpublic enlightenment.”
“Probably our youths do not know the consequences of what they are doing. We need to train them on the path of the Lord so that when we are not there, our minds will be at rest. We appeal to parents to give the children quality time. It should not be about making ends meet alone.” She concluded. 