  All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, at the weekend in Osogbo, Osun State capital, solicited support for the party’s candidate in the September 22, 2018 governorship election in the state, Alhaji Isiaka Adegboyega Oyetola, saying with his impeccable credentials, competence and the sterling performance of the outgoing Governor Rauf Aregbesola, the APC flag bearer is the best man for the job and the one to beat in the race. He said he was backing the renowned insurance guru and corporate player in order to help replicate the economic and infrastructural development witnessed in Lagos in Osun. Tinubu spoke during separate visits to the palaces of Ataoja of Osogbo, Oba Jimoh Olanipekun, and Owa-Obokun of Ijeshaland, Oba Adekunle Aremolaran. During the visits, the APC leader sought royal blessing for Oyetola. At the palace of Ataoja, the former Lagos State governor described Oyetola as a technocrat and shrewd manager and administrator, recalling how he single-handedly founded and raised his own company, an insurance company, to a place of enviable status. Also, Tinubu said Ogbeni Aregbesola had laid the infrastructural foundation for the state and that Oyetola, with his experience and expertise in the corporate world, would take Osun to the next level to raise its economic and investment profile. Receiving Asiwaju Tinubu, Oba Olanipekun expressed gratitude to the APC leader for the role he played when the traditional ruler had challenges over his emergence as Ataoja of Osogbo. Ola Olanipekun also commended Governor Aregbesola for doing an excellent job in the state, admitting that Osogbo particularly benefited from the administration with the good network of road and other infrastructure put in place in the state. He, however, said if elected, Oyetola should help to further develop the city. The APC leader was accompanied on the visit by Health Minister, Prof. Isaac Adewole, former APC National Vice Chairman, South-West, Chief Pius Akinyelure, Lagos State Information Commissioner, Mr. Kehinde Bamigbetan, and Executive National Commissioner, Stakeholders Management of the National Communications Commission, Mr. Sunday Dare. Speaking at the palace of Owa-Obokun, Asiwaju described the traditional ruler as a foremost author and popular economist who is no push-over in the land. Ola Aromolaran requested through Asiwaju that if the APC candidate is elected, he should help upgrade the College of Education in the city into a full-fledged University of Education. He also asked that his palace burnt by hoodlums allegedly sponsored by then PDP-led government in the state, in the wake of the struggle by Aregbesola to reclaim his mandate stolen in 2007, be rebuilt. 