Fresh facts have emerged on why the name of the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Lasun Yusuff, was left out from the list of the campaign committee released by the ruling All Progressives Congress, ahead of the September 22 governorship election in Osun State. The party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole had, on Wednesday, inaugurated the 63-man National Campaign Committee and tasked them to ensure that the candidate of the APC in Osun, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola, emerged victorious at the poll. About 14 APC governors, some ministers and National Assembly members, including the nine members of the APC from Osun State, made the list, except the deputy speaker. A chieftain of the party told our correspondent that Yusuff’s name was not on the list because the APC in Osun was yet to reconcile with him, alleging that the development was aimed at humiliating the deputy speaker.   The chieftain, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Yusuff’s name was deliberately left out from the campaign list despite his political status in the party at the national level and his stake in Osun. He said, “There are nine (9) members of the APC from Osun State at the National Assembly; all of them made the list except Yusuff, their imaginary foe. How could you reconcile this move with the fact that Yusuff is a big factor in the state? “After the grossly defective party primaries that produced Gboyega Oyetola, deputy speaker Lasun has on several occasions, assured the party of his loyalty. But rather than being magnanimous in victory and extend an olive branch to some of the aggrieved party faithful, those who have personalised the party in the state continue to swim in the pool of vindictiveness. They see everyone as their enemy that should be treated with disdain. “More than 70 per cent of party exco members at the ward levels have left the party! The party state Vice Chairman, Azeez Adesiji, and a number of state exco members left the party some weeks back. Everyone has left. Those that are still in the party are doing so to monitor what looks like the impending debilitating defeat of the party,” he
revealed. The APC chieftain further said, “I look around, and I see not many politicians of note sticking out their neck for Oyetola. Why? Someone like Yusuff that would have calmed some nerves in the party in the state has eventually been told openly, with this tactless list, that he is not wanted in the party. This is very
sad. “Anyway, by God’s Grace, we all will be here on Sunday, September 23, to do a review of the election. But I’m afraid, by that time, it would have been too late for the Falcon to hear the falconer again because things, of course, would have fallen apart beyond
repairs.” 