 Francis Kadiri Taraba State Governor, Architect Dickson Ishaku Darius has said that frontline PDP presidential aspirant, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki, has all what it takes to be Nigeria’s president in 2019. The governor, who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Engr. Haruna Manu, made the remark when the presidential aspirant visited the Government House in Jalingo, in continuation of his nationwide consultations ahead of the party’s presidential primary next month. He said: “In terms of capability, capacity and knowledge of the situation of the country, you have it all. We will pray for you. We will support you. We will take a united position.” He commended Turaki for his digital disposition to governance and his thorough grasp of the Nigerian situation. “We want to see you again in either November or December on campaign as our party’s presidential candidate,” he added. He however counseled that the PDP can only dislodge the APC in the 2019 general elections if there was cohesion among members, especially the presidential aspirants. He therefore enjoined the aspirants to abide by the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) which they all signed to support whoever emerged as the party’s presidential candidate, noting that so many people are anxious to see how the PDP will conduct its primaries as a prelude to rescuing Nigerians from the hardships imposed on them by the APC. While at the state PDP secretariat, the party chairman, Hon. Victor Bala Kona who expressed the hope that Turaki will emerge as the party’s presidential standard bearer acknowledged the aspirant’s stewardship “in serving as a strong, loyal and stable party member.” He commended Turaki for using his skill as a Senior Advocate of Nigeria in defending the party in election matters and other issues in the North East’s-political zone. He noted that Turaki’s commitment to the PDP had not been for pecuniary gain, noting further that during the party’s crisis, the aspirant remained firm, resolute and guided the party in retrieving its soul from destruction. “There should be reward for loyalty,” the chairman said, otherwise, it will discourage justice and encourage injustice.” The former Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs had stated earlier that he will give priority to the tackling of the country’s security challenges, rejuvenating the economy, fighting corruption through the strict adherence to the rule of law and will never lie to Nigerians. 