 Adebukola Ogunfemi and Adeleke Adesanya A notorious armed-robber on the wanted list of the police, Taiwo Gbolahan also known as Scammer, a suspected member of the gang that attacked and killed a Police Sergeant earlier this year at Akala-Mushin, a suburb of Lagos, during an operation to cleanse the area of drug-barons and armed bandits, arrested yesterday September 18, 2018. He was arrested at Akala by the operatives of the command, led by Area Commander-in-charge of Area D Command, Mushin, ACP Akinbayo Olasoji. In a release signed by Chike Oti, Police Public Relations Officer, Lagos State, he said a tip given by a well-to-do-citizen to the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Edgal Imohimi, that the gangster was seen roaming the ghettos of Akala, prompted the CP to direct the Area Commander to personally lead an operation for the arrest of the criminal who has been terrorising innocent citizens in the area. The raid led to the arrest of the notorious criminal, who was thoroughly searched, while a handset with numerous SIM cards recovered from him. Further Investigation into the source of the handset revealed the owner as Memunat Opeyemi Zerbo, female, of Orile Iganmu. She was invited to the police station where she identified the suspect as part of a three-man gang of armed thieves that robbed her valuables, same day, 18/09/2018, at about 0517hrs. She also explained how the gang, armed with many harmful materials like guns, cutlass and dagger, robbed her of her handset and SIM card through which the sum of one hundred and seventy thousand Naira (N170, 000. 00) from transferred from her account. The suspect, who admitted to all the crimes committed, is presently assisting the police in its bit to arrest other members of the gang at large. The Commissioner of Police commended Lagosians for trusting the police with information. He further enjoined those sitting on the fence to key into the community policing philosophy of the force in order to ensure a safer and more secured society. 