… PDP, APC members arrested Timothy Agbor, Osogbo Despite the sensitisation, campaigns and warnings against vote buying by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, the Police and other civil society organisations, many of those who participated in the Saturday governorship election in Osun State, were induced with money for their votes, The Point investigation has revealed.  Though the practice was not as brazen as it was done during the recently conducted Ekiti State governorship election, politicians in Osun threw caution to the wind by devising a secret and discreet means of buying votes. To avoid indictment, major political parties, which participated in the Osun election, it was learnt, hired the services of foot soldiers and agents, who negotiated, beforehand, with voters on the amount they would want to sell their votes. Checks by our Correspondent across Osun State during the Saturday governorship election revealed that these hired vote buyers, unlike their modus operandi in the Ekiti poll, had earlier taken the list of voters, who had indicated interest to part with their votes for prices ranging from N2, 000 to N10, 000. The lists were also said to have contained the bank account details of voters for online money transfer. But while some voters stealthily received their money by hand a stone throw to the polling units, others were paid through online mobile banking. It was also gathered that some vote-buying agents of political parties engaged in door-to-door canvassing and payment for votes on the eve of the election and the early hours of Saturday. A visit to Ward 10, Unit 4 at Ologun/Agbaakin in Ede, Ede North Local Government Area of Osun State revealed that vote buying took place secretly at a bungalow as voters sneaked in and out of the house to collect money for their votes. Most of the people who participated in this act, it was observed, had already finished the voting process. Our Correspondent observed some voters at Ward 4, Unit 5, Otun Olufi polling unit, St. Paul’s Primary School, Oke Church area, Gbongan in Ayedaade Local Government Area of the state, spoiling for a fight with an All Progressives Congress, APC, stalwart (names withheld) for sending only N7,000 to their individual bank accounts, instead of the N8,000 they had allegedly earlier agreed upon for their votes. The party “scout” defended the allegation, saying the pay was “like that due to bank charges and other logistics” and appealed to the mainly women voters, to “manage” the N7,000 pay. At ward 2, unit 9, Sagaba/Abogunde polling station in Ede, Ede North Local Government Area, aged people were seen discretely receiving N2,000 from politicians of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, after voting. This same scenario played itself out in Iragbiji, where some voters were said to have collected the sum of N2,000 from the stalwarts of the ruling APC. Two of these politicians were said to have later been arrested by the police.  Also, police reportedly nabbed a party agent of the People’s Democratic Party allegedly caught with a compiled list of names and significant amount of money at Ward 11 Unit 14 of the Osogbo Local Government Area, Osogbo. Arrested along with the party agent was one man, simply identified as AY. Police swung into action, when the suspicious movement of the two men was noticed. They were immediately apprehended after a thorough check. The two suspects, our correspondent observed, were later handcuffed and taken away from the scene of the crime. Also, the APC Treasurer in Iwo and one other person were said to have been arrested for vote buying. A domestic election observer, who simply identified herself as Tunrayo, in Ikire, told our correspondent that politicians were handling the vote buying act with “maturity and secrecy.” According to her, “I suspect vote-buying, because I have seen some members of political parties with lists of voters. These politicians are two and they mark these lists immediately voters leave the voting cubicle. I believe they have been mature and highly secretive about it because of the threat of arrest. It’s either they have been paid before coming to vote or they would go and collect their payment afterwards.” Meanwhile, our correspondent gathered that some voters, though collected money from politicians under the pretence of voting for them, went ahead to vote according to their conscience. When contacted for reaction, the Commissioner of Police in Osun State, Mr Olafimihan Adeoye, did not pick calls made to his phone. But some leaders of the APC and PDP have denied vote buying by their members. Speaking in Ikire, a member of the House of Representatives on the platform of the APC, Mrs. Ayo Omidiran, said there was nothing like vote buying in her local government, Irewole Local Government Area. The Commissioner for Finance in the state, Bola Oyebamiji, also denied reports of vote buying while speaking with our correspondent in his hometown, Ikire. Commissioner for Commerce, Cooperative and Industry, Mr. ismail Alagbada, also said the election had been devoid of vote-buying. Similarly, a PDP chieftain in the state, Senator Olasunkanmi Akinlabi, told our correspondent that the election had been peaceful and that he had not noticed any form of vote-buying. The former minister of youths and sport said PDP did not need to buy votes to win the Osun governorship poll. 