  The Nigeria Police Force has filed charges of examination malpractices, impersonation and criminal conspiracy against the governorship candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, in the coming Saturday’s election in Osun State. The charges were filed at the Federal High Court in Abuja. Speaking to journalist in Abuja on Wednesday, Police Spokesperson, Jimoh Moshood, said that investigations revealed that Senator Adeleke and his brother Sikiru Adeleke registered and sat for the National Examination Council Examination (NECO) 2017 as internal candidates, impersonating students of the school at the ages of 57 and 42 years respectively. The Police also said that the School Principal of Ojo-Aro Community High School, Egbedore Local Government Area, Osun State, and three others would equally be charged for abetting crime. Osun State Police Intelligence Bureau (SIB) was said to have received and acted on an actionable intelligence about an ongoing examination malpractice involving Senator Ademola Adeleke and Sikiru Adeleke at Ojo/Aro Community High School in Osun State. “When the Police operative arrived at the school, only Sikiru Adeleke was found seated for the examination while Senator Ademola Adeleke seat was vacant and was suspected to have escaped before the arrival of the Police operatives. “Further investigations revealed that both Senator Ademola Adeleke and his brother, Sikiru Adeleke, registered and were sitting for the National Examination Council Examination (NECO) 2017 as internal candidates impersonating students of the school at the ages of 57years and 42years respectively. This crime was facilitated by the Principal of the school, and two other members of staff of the school for which they are under investigation and being charged to court. “The Principal of the school, Alhaji Aregbesola Mufutau, the staff responsible for registration, Mr Gbadamosi Thomas Ojo and a teacher Mr Dare Olutope were arrested on 21 July 2017. “Senator Ademola Adeleke was arrested on 27 July 2017 and Sikiru Adeleke was arrested on 8 August 2017. “Senator Ademola Adeleke made cautionary statement and admitted that he registered for the 2017 NECO examinations as an internal student in the said school but he didn’t sit for the examination. “However, Police investigation revealed the following primafacial and culpability facts against Senator Ademola Adeleke and four (4) others. “Senator Ademola Adeleke made cautionary statement and admitted that he registered for the 2017 NECO examinations as an internal student in the said school and did not sit for the examination but have a result from NECO with Seven (7) Credits and One (1) Pass, a copy of which was obtained from NECO by the Police. Senator Ademola Adeleke in the NECO 2017 Result obtained by the claimed that he was born on 12th June 1997, but in his statement to the Police, Senator Ademola Adeleke wrote 13th May, 1960 as his Date of Birth. 