Women in the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress have called for political relevance in the state ahead of the 2019 general elections. The women leader of the party at Ward C1, Lagos Island Local Government, Hon. Wuraola Williams,  made the call at the Widows’ Empowerment and Award Presentation ceremony in Lagos. The ceremony was held in support of widows in the ward. Williams said women in the Lagos chapter of the party need more consideration for involvement in political positions. Williams, who demanded total compliance from party leaders at ward levels and beyond, in adopting direct primaries as
instructed by the party’s National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, also noted that women are subjected to different abuses
before they can be given tickets to run for elective
positions. She decried instances of women being physically assaulted by some “desperate male counterparts” who see women seeking elective posts as major threats, adding that such abuse would not be condoned. “Women are important fragment of our party and this time around we want to be more relevant. Apart from this, I will like to state that, we women shall vehemently resist any form of abuse on women by any leader in this party
henceforth. “Most of these party leaders have been taking advantage of us. They will assault us, some of them even went as far as beating some of us because we are contesting and mobilising against
them. “This is not what Asiwaju , our father taught us. These are bad eggs in the party; their actions are against the practice of our great party and leader Tinubu. They just want to sabotage Asiwaju’s efforts, and they will not succeed. This will not be tolerated again, ”
she said. In her submission, an aspirant for the Lagos State House of Assembly, Lagos Island Constituency I, Mrs Deborah Ibijoke Rufai, promised to make good representation for the people. She added that abuse of women in politics must not be condoned as she called for equal opportunity with their male
counterparts. Rufai, who sought the support of Williams and her group, said her decision to run for the position was informed by the need to touch the lives of the people, especially women. In his remark, chairman of the occasion, Prince Wale Ojora, applauded Williams for her humanitarian service. “Out of the little she has, Williams still shares with the widows and this is not the first time; she has been doing this often. Many cannot do that. This gesture is really commendable, ”
Ojora said. 