…over 16% take own lives yearly, says WHO     …depression, frustration leading cause Except drastic measures are taken by authorities concerned to arrest the situation, more Nigerians are going to commit suicide, going by new revelations, which showed that the country has not included suicide prevention strategies among its health
priorities. Already, the rate of suicide cases in the country is at over 15,000 out of every 100,000, which was recently confirmed by the World Health Organisation (WHO) study, which ranked Nigeria as a top five suicide prone country.  The study shows that Nigeria has 16.6 percent suicide cases annually, which translates to 15,000 persons, which recent events have proven to be true. Few weeks ago, an undergraduate of the Niger Delta University, Wilberforce Island, Bayelsa State, Aduba Daniel, reportedly committed suicide by drinking a deadly insecticide. Daniel was found writhing in pain and was immediately rushed to a hospital in the Amassoma area, where it was realised that he had drunken a poisonous substance. It was later discovered that the deceased had carry-overs in four courses, and this must have caused him to take his own life. There was another report last week that a Nigerian Army captain on deployment in the North-East, committed suicide, to mention just a few in the last one month. WHO, in a statement to commemorate the 2018 World Suicide Prevention Day, marked across the globe, recently, said no fewer than 800,000 people commit suicide annually, the second leading cause of death among people between the ages of 15 and 29, in 2016. Worried about the trend, psychiatrists in the country are calling on the Federal Government to rise up and address the challenge by giving priority to mental health through effective policies and legislations. Speaking with our correspondent, Consultant Psychiatrist and Lecturer,  Department of Psychiatry at the University of Lagos, Dr. Peter Ogunubi, said the only way the government could effectively tackle the problem of mental illness and its attendant consequences, such as suicide, is to pass the Mental Health Bill lying at the National Assembly for many years
now. His words: “It is unfortunate that the Federal Government has been paying lip-service to mental health in Nigeria, forgetting that over 30 million Nigerians have one form of mental illness or the other. Passing the Mental Health Bill before the National Assembly is the only way to go, if the issue of mental illness is to be reduced in the country.” Ogunubi pointed out that government is paying attention to ailments like cancer and HIV because they affect the rich, but when it comes to mental illness, government is silent. “We have discovered that any illness that does not affect the rich does not get the attention of the government in Nigeria. For years now, the Mental Health Bill has been at the National Assembly without been debated. “They call the Mental Health Bill an orphan bill, because it has no sponsor. The National Assembly had passed other bills before it, but has refused to pass the Mental Health Bill because no Ghana–must-go bag of money was attached to it. As we speak, Ghana has passed their mental health law, and they have the Department of Mental Health but, in Nigeria, we are still groping in the dark,” he
said. This is even as hospital visitation record from the Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Yaba, shows that the number of new cases of mental illness has doubled in the last one month. Dr. Ogunubi described the Lunacy Act that is currently in use in the country as outdated and so, cannot address present day needs and challenges. According to him, the MHB, if passed into law and assented to, will ensure that government increased access to mental health services, address the problem of inadequate facilities, which is currently less than 50 in the country, and shortage of
manpower. He went on: “If the bill is passed, it will also subsidize the much needed medication for mental illness patients. As we speak, treatment for mental illness is very expensive and, in Nigeria, it is still out of pocket payment. It is the family members that bear the expenses and some patients are on a medication of over N80,000 per month. But drug for HIV is
free. “Nigerians go as far as Benin Republic to get free medication because they have free mental healthcare there. Out of the money budgeted for health, we don’t even have one per cent for mental care.” He lamented that with a population of over 170 million people, Nigeria has less than 200 psychiatrists — one to one million persons! He added that there are even no facilities to absorb those that have graduated from
psychiatry. Also, another Consultant Psychiatrist with the Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Yaba, Dr. Olamide Oluwaniyi, told The Point that based on recent happenings, it has become important for government to integrate mental health into primary healthcare to enable those with mental illness have access to
treatment. He emphasised that though mental health disorders may be life-long but, with adequate treatment, the patient could still lead a positive mental life. “Having a mental disorder does not mean you cannot have a positive mental health. With the right treatment, it is very possible. But the problem we have in Nigeria is that most people with mental disorders seek spiritual help rather than medical help,” he observed. Oluwaniyi, therefore, urged government to promote things that will positively influence the mental health status of Nigerians such as good environment, health, social and economic policies, so as to enable everyone to be happy and fulfill his/her dreams in life. World Suicide Prevention Day is an awareness day observed every September 10 to provide worldwide commitment and action to prevent suicides, with various activities around the world since 2003. 