Recent flooding associated with heavy rainfalls in many parts of the country has become a source of worry  and concern. The havocs wreaked by flooding in different parts of the country have turned the rains into showers of sorrow rather than that of blessings. The accompanying damages in terms of loss of lives, property and even means of livelihood are also unimaginable. Farmlands, sacred places, including burial grounds, are not spared by the disaster as even the dead are no longer allowed to rest in peace in their graves, some of which have been reportedly washed away by the raging flood. From Lagos to Oyo,  Edo to Anambra and even to the northern parts of the country, only a few States have been spared as the rains came down with fury, throwing water everywhere, especially in the riverine areas. The National Emergency Management Agency, which is the Federal Government agency leading the overall national response to the disaster, in its  2018 Floods – Situation Report No. 1 dated 21 September 2018, in fact, painted a pathetic picture of the situation at hand with no fewer than 12 States and 50 Local Government Areas already listed as frontline States affected by flooding in the country. Already, four affected States, namely  Anambra, Delta, Kogi and Niger, are believed to be badly hit with about 327,052 people affected .. “Requests for food, medicines, NFI kits, mosquito nets and shelters are received from across the affected states. Seventy casualties have been reported so far and as the information is received, the numbers are expected to increase. Damaged shelters are yet to be ascertained in some areas as the flooding has not yet subsided. “There are reports of malaria and possibility of water borne diseases. The displaced population are currently being hosted in emergency shelters such as LGA offices, schools, stadiums, churches and an IDP hostel built by Presidential Committee on Flood Relief and Rehabilitation,” NEMA stated in the report. “Families who have relatives have opted to stay in host communities. The floods have damaged agricultural lands and as of reporting period, 60,208 hectares have already been affected. The extent of the damage is expected to increase once floods have receded. Power and telecommunications are reported to be down in some locations,” it added. The Point  recalls that adequate warnings were made to prepare us for the looming disaster just as we had enough time to do the needful. Taking a cue from the Nigerian Meteorological Services’ 2018 Seasonal Rainfall Prediction (SRP) which pointed to the fact that flooding was likely between the last week of July and end of August as a result of distortions and variations in the pattern of rainfall in the country, the Director- General of Nimet,  Prof. Sani Mashi, had, mid-July, given a warning on what would likely happen. “Unless adequate provision is made to accommodate the amount of water that is running on the surface , definitely the likelihood of flood is going to be very high, especially in the areas that are adding the riverine locations,” he had warned. And earlier in May, the Minister of Water Resources , Suleman Adamu, had presented the Nigeria Hydrological Agency  flood outlook for 2018 which  projected a high risk of river flooding in Sokoto, Niger, Benue, Anambra, Ogun, Osun, Cross River and Yobe States. The flood outlook also indicated that Lagos, Bayelsa, Rivers, Delta and Ondo States might experience coastal flooding as a result of likely rise in the sea level and tidal wave. According to the Minister, there would be a rise in the water levels on River Niger and Benue, with these remaining high during the raining season even as he raised the alarm that a lot of water might be spilled through the waterways as some dams were getting silted up and their capacity to store water gradually reducing . Unfortunately, the warnings were partly heeded and the aftermath is the costly price we have to pay for our inactions. Sadly, NEMA has listed the 2018 rainstorm in its record books as the worst in six years after the 2012 devastating floods that led to the death of 363 people, displaced  2.1 million while about seven million others were affected in 30 states across the country. Describing it as the most harmful flooding in the last four decades, NEMA put the losses from the 2012 flooding at N2.6 trillion. We are really worried by the perennial flooding in the country and the failure to heed early warning signals from Nimet and the Hydrological Department. More worrisome is the annual losses incurred by the victims over the years as the government has to respond to prevent further loss of lives. The Point is therefore happy that the Federal Government has showed some concern to the plight of the victims of the recent flood. Only last week, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo had to travel on canoe to visit some of the areas devastated by flood in Anambra and Delta States where he witnessed, firsthand, the havocs done to communities and farmlands by the flood as he also symphatized with the victims. While we sympathize with victims of the flood across the country, we also call on the States and Federal Governments to look for a permanent solution to perennial flooding as the pains and agony accompanying the disaster are quite unimaginable. Blocked drainages should be cleared regularly while residents of water-prone areas should also be advised not to build houses on water channels. The government, as a matter of urgency, should also come up with strategies to enforce compliance with early warning signals as is being done in other climes in order to reduce the effects of the flood. 