Many of the bridges in Lagos have, lately, become the targets of vandals and hoodlums, who have formed the habit of stripping this category of infrastructure of certain valuable parts. Our correspondent, who went round some of the bridges in the city of Lagos, observed that the iron soar covers and the aluminium handrails of many of the affected bridges have been removed and vandalized by hoodlums and thieves. Some of the affected bridges, our correspondent observed, include the Apapa, Ijora flyovers and Carter Bridge. The unfortunate development has, however, become a source of worry to many motorists and commuters in Lagos. According to them the vandalisation and theft of the iron soar covers and aluminium handrails on the bridges pose serious threats to all users of the facilities. They, therefore, warned that drastic and urgent actions must be taken by appropriate authorities to check this dangerous trend and prevent it from negatively affecting the new bridges being constructed across the state. A lawyer, Bright Obaduemu, said that the government should have taken pre-emptive measures to check the vandalisation of the bridges by unscrupulous individuals, saying they should have known that the aluminium materials used in making the soar covers and handrails would attract thieves, who would want to remove the materials and sell them to iron smelters, who use them to fabricate other items. Obaduemu said government should take the blames for allowing the vandals to carry out their nefarious activities, adding that if government had provided gadgets to secure the bridges, vandals would not have a field day destroying and stealing the soar covers and handrails. The lawyer, who also doubles as a property consultant, said because of the economic hardship in the country, many people have been living in abject poverty, adding that such people would do whatever they could to make ends meet. Some other motorists, commuters and pedestrians, however, appealed to the Federal Government to replace all the iron soar covers and handrails stolen from the affected bridges in Lagos State, so as to save the lives of motorists. They expressed fears that the potholes left behind after the thieves stole the iron soar covers and the stripping of the bridges of their handrails could cause serious accident. Some pedestrians also complained that the handrails, which would give anyone walking on the bridges some balance, had been vandalized, making it very dangerous to walk on them. According to a pedestrian, Emmanuel Uche, "It is now a death trap to walk on most of the bridges in Lagos. The bridges in Apapa, Ijora are mostly affected. We don't have enough policemen to monitor the activities of hoodlums, who vandalise the bridge rails and sell them to their receivers, who are enriching themselves without care about the effect it would have on the society. Go and look at Lagos bridges, including the Carter Bridge, they vandalised the rails, endangering the lives of pedestrians, who make use of the bridges. I want to advise the government to create a special security agency that would ensure the security of Lagos bridges." Another pedestrian, Oluwashola Omojola, expressed sadness at the way hoodlums vandalise facilities on bridges in Lagos. Omojola said, "It's very sad that the bridge rails have developed wings in Lagos State and nobody is talking about it. Nobody cares. Government, both state and Federal, are not talking about it. Is it because the rich men are not walking on the bridges? It is very dangerous to walk on Lagos bridges today because hoodlums have stolen the handrails. Government should be serious about this. If we are talking of a mega city, why can't the Lagos State Government protect the bridges? It is becoming a shame that in Nigeria everything that is metal, aluminium and even plastics, is no longer safe. “The hungry thieves will vandalise or steal them. How many people have policemen arrested and paraded or prosecuted for stealing bridge handrails? I'm yet to see one. Who are they selling the bridge rails to? The policemen and other security agencies should be up and doing. They should live up to their responsibilities and protect the bridges and the handrails. Without handrails, somebody can fall off the bridge. When they fall, people will believe the person committed suicide. They will not remember that the person had no support on the bridge and, therefore, fell." A taxi driver, Moshood Bello, also urged the government to replace or cover the potholes on Lagos bridges created by the vandals’ nefarious activities. He said, "It is terrible descending from Alaka down the Ijora Bridge. The potholes are so many. They were the holes the vandals left behind after removing the iron soar covers used in covering cables in the bridges. The vandals also steal the cables and sell them. If the government cannot fill the holes left behind with iron covers, they should use cement or bitumen to cover them. Any motorist who did not know or remember about the potholes on that bridge may either end up in hospital or his grave. The holes are very deep. It can cause a vehicle to tumble. To avert such serious accident, the government should cover the holes without waiting for a new budget. " Similarly, another taxi driver, who identified himself as Y.O Ajao, said, "The government should put security men on the bridges to stop thieves from vandalising the rails and iron soar covers.  If the tyre of a moving vehicle enters any of the holes, the vehicle will somersault. Many of the bridges are becoming death traps because of the removal of the iron soar covers from the bridges. Nigerians should learn how to save lives, especially the government. They should do something fast and address the situation. We don't have policemen monitoring those soar covers. The government should save the lives of Nigerians and ensure that there are no potholes on our bridges." Also, a mini- bus driver, Akin Oni, said, "Thieves steal both the bridge handrails and the soar covers. They will steal and sell. You know that aluminium handrails are very expensive. Even the iron soar covers are also expensive. Government should replace the stolen ones and protect them. Or they can use concrete or tar the holes up. Police should begin to look out for the thieves also and prosecute them. They should also try and arrest the receiver, because without the receiver, there will be no stealing of such items. Vehicles can tumble if the tyre gets into such serious potholes. Let us take our lives very seriously and do what is right at the right time. Government should not wait until one rich or notable personality gets involved in an accident before they will act." But the Lagos State Police Command said that it had taken some action on the matter by arresting and prosecuting over 25 suspected bridge vandals in the state. The police said that the arrested suspect vandalised and stole iron soar covers and handrails on some of the affected bridges. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Chief Superintendent of Police, Chike Oti, confirmed to our correspondent that the police arrested 25 suspected bridge vandals and charged them to court. Oti added that the accused persons were remanded in prison custody pending the adjourned dates for their trials to commence in court. The police spokesman appealed to Nigerians to always endeavour to protect all public amenities in the country because they are for public convenience and good. He urged Lagosians to always volunteer information to the police on those vandalising public amenities or any other government property. "We arrested about 25 suspects and charged them to court. They were arrested from different locations and at different dates. They were charged to court and remanded in prison custody. Nigerians should be very patriotic enough to protect public amenities. They should be vigilant and pass information to the police if they see anybody vandalizing public amenities," Oti said. 