 Adebukola Ogunfemi 43year-old Augustus Akpan, the suspected criminal who threatened to rape and kill Atiku Abubakar and family if he doesn’t withdraw from the election, has said that he just wanted to swindle the former vice-president. This was made known in a release signed by Force Public Relations Officer, Force Headquarters, Ag. DCP Jimoh Moshood. The police were able to recover the following items  from the suspect; one Samsung (Galaxy S6 Edge +) Mobile Phone and the SIM Card used to send the threat messages to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, his wife and daughter. “The suspect sent a total of three messages to the family in a bid to try to swindle them. He sent the first message to Atiku Abubakar, which reads; “Turaki Atiku, we are watching you and your family, we ask you right now to withdraw from the race for Presidency, we will kill, rape your wife and daughters. That your ambitious and black daughter Maryam who worked at CBN and left because we were going to mess her up. We will molest, rape, deform her and kill her. Your daughter Fatimah the former Commissioner of Health in Adamawa State, we have a lot of information about her. Also pictures of her naked body, we will mess your overly prostitute wife Jennifer up. We have a lot about them. Let Buhari run against your PDP members. We know that you are bigger than all those candidates in PDP. That is why we need you to step down. We will blow your plane off from the sky and we will poison you and your family. Atiku Abubakar, take our words for granted and watch what will happen to your family before you. You are going to see what we will do to you and your family. We know where and where your children travel to. We have watched your daughter who is a strong supporter of her father (your daughter Maryam) at number 5, Buzi close and number 5, Lake Maracaibo close”.  The second message was sent to wife; “Jennifer. Tell your husband to step down. We will blow up his plane and kill all of you. We will rape you and all his daughters and also kill all of you out there. Do not underestimate us. We know your office at 13 Danube Street Maitama. We will blow up the place and rape all your step daughters that we know you don’t like already. Tell him to step down now and forget about running for the presidency.’’ The final text message was sent to his daughter; “Tell your dad to step down. He should forget about the Presidency. If he refuses, we will blow up his plane the Gulf Stream from the sky and also rape you and kill his daughters. No amount of Police or protection will stop us. We know where all of you live in. We know number 5 Buzi close and number 5, Lake Maracaibo close. Try us and blood shall spread.’’ On the receipt of complaint of threat and intimidation, Akpan was trailed and eventually arrested by the IGP Intelligence Response Team. He was arrested  by the police at toll-gate along Lagos-Ibadan express way, Lagos State by IGP Intelligence Response team IRT Operatives led by DCP Abba Kyari, while on the run to escape arrest by fleeing the country. During interrogation, he confessed to the crime and admitted that he resorted to the threat and intimidation, which was his last resort when all efforts to extort money from the former vice president were unsuccessful. Akpan, a resident of Edemaya village, Ikot Abasi LGA, Akwa Ibom State, also admitted  and clarified in his confessional statement that he is a professional fraudster and not working for any political party, that his mention that ‘Let Buhari run against  your other PDP members’ in his threat message to the former vice president was merely to divert attention. The suspect further confessed that he had threatened, extorted and defrauded huge sum of money in Naira and foreign currency from so many prominent personalities and their family members while posing as Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) agent. Moshood said that suspect will be arraigned in court on completion of investigation.  