Kofi Annan’s widow, Nane Maria led thousands of mourners, including world leaders past and present, traditional rulers and global royalty, to pay their last respect to the proud son of Africa and a global icon. Maria said her husband was an “extraordinary” person who had a “joy of life”. “My love, you are now back home where you started your long journey. But may your wisdom and compassion continue to guide us, wherever we are,” those were her words in Accra, the capital of Ghana. Kojo, his son, said; “The greatest tribute we could ever pay is to follow his example.” It was a three-hour ceremony of tributes, prayer and song. Annan led the UN from 1997 to 2006 and was the first from sub-Saharan Africa to do so. He died on August 18 aged 80 at his home in Switzerland after a short illness. Thousands of ordinary Ghanaians this week paid their final respects as his coffin lay in state during three days of national mourning. Ghana’s President Nana Akufo-Addo called him “one of the truly iconic figures of modern times”. – ‘Stubborn optimist’ – Many ordinary Ghanaians described him as a father-figure and a source of national pride. Current UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres praised his close friend as an “exceptional global leader” who was dignified, courageous and a man of “integrity, dynamism and dedication.” Mabel Wisse Smit, Princess Mabel of the Netherlands, pays her respects in front of the coffin of Kofi Annan, a Ghanaian diplomat and former Secretary-General of United Nations, during the funeral ceremony in Accra on September 13, 2018, after he died on August 18 at the age of 80 after a short illness. World leaders past and present, traditional rulers and global royalty joined the family of Annan, as the former UN secretary general’s state funeral took place in his native Ghana. / AFP PHOTO  A woman pours sand into the grave of Kofi Annan during the funeral ceremony of the Ghanaian diplomat and former Secretary-General of United Nations, at The Burma Camp military cemetery in Accra on September 13, 2018, after he died on August 18 at the age of 80 after a short illness. AFP PHOTO – President Akufo-Addo of Ghana said; “The outpouring of tributes from the world over is an accurate measure of the man, a man who gave his life to making peace where there was conflict, to defending the voiceless who were powerless, to promoting virtue where there was evil.” 