 … I was promised N11m – Suspect SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA Police in Ogun State have arrested a 62-year-old-man, Ganiyu Idowu for conniving with two other suspects to kill one Ganiyu Akanni for ritual purposes. Idowu, a herbalist, was said to have attempted to use Akanni, his 32-year-old apprentice for ritual purposes with the aid of two other suspects; Alfa Bamigbola Edun, 50 and Matthew Odunewu, 62, respectively. The State Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Iliyasu, while parading the three suspects including 17 others at Eleweran Police Headquarters, Abeokuta, stated that their crime ranges from armed robbery, kidnapping, among others. Ilyasu said that Idowu, who is from Benin Republic, took his apprentice to a river bank at Oriyanrin area of Abeokuta to kill him with the hope of getting N11,000,000 million after giving some vital organs of his body to Alfa Edun to sell to others for ritual purposes. The CP said that suspects were arrested at about 11:00pm at the river bank at Oriyanrin  with the combined efforts of the Police attached to Adigbe Division and the operatives of the FSARS when they were seen lying the victim on the ground and were about to slaughter him for ritual purposes. Iliyasu said; “Following an intelligence report received about the activities of some people who are planning to kill their victim for ritual at Oriyanrin Area of Abeokuta, the DPO Adigbe Division, whose jurisdiction the incident was about to occur was directed to work hand in hand with FSARS operatives in order to save the live of the innocent victim and bring the culprit to justice.” “In compliance with my directives, operatives of the two formations embarked on 24hour-surveillance of the bank of Ogun River. Their efforts paid off on the 30th of August 2018 at about 11pm, when four men were sighted coming to the river bank with three of them holding polythene bag each.” “On getting to the river bank, the three men grabbed the fourth person who is the youngest of them, laid him on the ground and was about to slaughter him like a sacrificial lamb when the operatives swooped into action and got them arrested,” he narrated. The three suspects however confessed to committing the crime, adding that the polythene bags were meant to collect their own share after killing the victim. Idowu told Journalists that it was Alfa Edun that asked him to bring his apprentice, Akanni, to the river bank and kill him for ritual purposes with the promise that he would receive N11,000,000 million in return after his body parts had been shared. Idowu said; “It was Alfa who told me to let us go and kill the apprentice and use his body parts for ritual, he said that he would give me N11,000,000m in return after we kill him. I don’t even know what he used on my apprentice before that one followed him to the river bank at Oriyanrin.” But the Muslim cleric denied all allegations levelled against him by Idowu, saying that he never asked him to bring his apprentice to be killed for ritual purposes or promise to give him N11,000,000m as his own share from killing him.  