… We are committed to increase quality nutrition knowledge among Nigerians – Nestle SEKINAH LAWAL  Nestlé Nigeria on Thursday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Diamond Awards for Media Excellence (DAME) Trust Fund to institute a ‘Nestlé Prize for Nutrition Reporting.’ The aim of this partnership endorsed by the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Lagos State Council, is to empower media professionals in the area of nutrition and health reporting.  It will also recognize, reward and celebrate excellence among nutrition and health Journalists. The Diamond Awards for Media Excellence (DAME) is the only awards scheme in Nigeria that covers the media disciplines of Journalism, Broadcasting and Advertising. Founded upon the ideals that the media is the watchdog of the society, as well as the fourth estate of the realm, DAME exists to celebrate and reward superior performance in the fulfilment of such pivotal roles. The sponsorship of a Nestlé Prize for Nutrition Reporting in DAME is another step in Nestlé Nigeria’s continuous collaboration with stakeholders and partners to provide adequate research based information to help people make healthier food choices. Nestlé recognizes the key role the media has to play in achieving this objective. Nigeria currently grapples with the challenges associated with the triple burden of nutrition; under-nutrition, over-nutrition and micronutrient deficiency. Nestlé believes that promoting healthy nutrition habits as well as improving access to nutritious food will have a positive impact on Nigeria’s health profile. Speaking on the importance of the partnership at the signing ceremony, Nestlé Nigeria’s Managing Director, Mr. Mauricio Alarcon said that Nestle is very much interested in better life for all through good food, right products and right ingredients. Alarcon stated that it is not only about the reward but making people to make the right choices. “We strongly believe that when provided with adequate information and training, the media plays a key role in raising awareness of key nutrition, health and wellness issues among stakeholders and the public. Armed with fact-based information, individuals and families are empowered to make healthier nutrition choices.” “We are confident that this partnership will provide a good platform to equip journalists with training and capacity building opportunities to help them perform at optimal capacity,” Mr. Alarcon added. Speaking on behalf of DAME, Mr. Lanre Idowu, DAME Trustee, commended Lagos NUJ for the good initiative aimed at promoting best practices among media practitioners and urged journalists to take advantage of this award to give consumers the best in terms of nutritional information. “We are very happy to have Nestlé Prize for Nutrition Reporting on the list of categories for the 27th edition of the prestigious media awards.  This will encourage and give the much needed attention and recognition to exceptional nutrition writers and stimulate interest in nutrition writing.” In his remarks at the signing ceremony, Dr. Qasim Akinreti, Chairman, NUJ Lagos State Council, appreciated Nestlé Nigeria for sponsoring the nutrition category to fill the gap in that area while saying that the idea of the award was an initiative of the Lagos NUJ professionalism programme of his leadership to fill the gap in that area. “We appreciate Nestlé Nigeria for collaborating with us to establish a Nestlé Prize for Nutrition Reporting, a first of its kind from the industry. This award will not only motivate our members but will also help us work towards achieving the sustainable development goals which include health,” he said. Nestlé Nigeria again reiterated its commitment towards enhancing quality of life and contributing to a healthier future by working with partners to empower individuals to make healthier food choices. Nestlé Prize for Nutrition Reporting will help towards achieving this commitment by training and building the capability of media practitioners in this field. This is one more way through which the company creates shared value in the communities where it operates. Health and nutrition reporters can submit entries for Nestlé Prize for Nutrition Reporting in DAME Awards by visiting www.dameawards.com before the 17th of October, 2018. First held in 1992, DAME is a not-for-profit trust established to enhance professionalism in the Nigerian media. Apart from the 26 uninterrupted annual awards presentations to date, it holds periodic training for media professionals. For the first time in the Award’s history, Nutrition Reporting, sponsored by Nestlé Nigeria PLC are included in the roll honours. 