Former Jigawa State governor and 2019 Presidential aspirant on the ticket of Peoples Democratic Party, Alhaji Sule Lamido, is pushing through his interest in the number one ticket of his party. And as he continues with his nationwide consultations and mobilisation of support for his presidential ambition, Lamido has enjoined Nigerians to live in peace with one another, so as to allow meaningful development to take place for the benefit of all. Lamido, who was on a courtesy visit to the Benue State Governor,  Samuel Ortom, in Makurdi, the state capital on Thursday, also promised to enhance the quality of lives of Nigerians, if given the mandate, saying he was in the state to consult with his party and supporters in realisation of his presidential ambition come 2019. Lamido noted that Nigeria has a long history of crisis, ranging from military coups and kidnappings,  among other vices, adding that leaders must put human consideration above other parochial interests towards ensuring purposeful leadership in the country. “We must uphold a common stand for our brotherhood. We should be there for each other irrespective of whether you a northerner, southerner, easterner or westerner if we are to remain together as an indivisible
entity. “Nigeria is a symbol of the black race, meaning that any black man in the Diaspora looks up to Nigeria for leadership. We must be mindful of what we do because whatever we do affects others,” he stated. The former Jigawa state governor however noted with sadness that the ruling All Progressives Congress, has allegedly introduced division leading to what he described as venomous agenda aimed at defrauding
the country. “Today, there is blood everywhere. We can no longer sleep with our two eyes closed due to killings and kidnapping by undesirable elements
nationwide. “The APC has demonised, blackmailed the PDP but the APC is a party that strives in falsehood.  PDP is the only party with the political history to keep Nigeria united. “Those of them with chicken heart go to APC for sanctuary and to also be used to create division in the country. “I share in anxiety of those who advocate frat Nigeria should be restructured. APC is a party that strives on propaganda and the money they have stolen is so horrendous and they keep talking about
corruption. “But when we come back, we will install integrity in the system,” he said. Lamido insisted that his aspiration is not desperation, adding  “we must work for a united Nigeria and secure the country.” Welcoming the presidential aspirant, Governor Ortom said Nigeria has come a long way .Ortom, who was represented by his deputy, Engr. Benson Abounu, said too much politicking without measurable action is the cause of Nigeria’s underdevelopment. Ortom  pledged Benue’s total support towards the realization of his presidential ambition, expressing the confidence that when Lamido gets in as the president, he will turn the country around as he did to Jigawa State when he was
governor. 