A forty-year-old woman has landed in police net for allegedly defrauding her business partner the sum of N5 million. The suspect, Ms. Uche Uzodinma, according to a police source, said the incident occurred at Yusuf Bishi Street, Agodo Egbe, Lagos, where the transaction reportedly took place. Our correspondent learnt that the complainant, Mr. Idris Adekoya, reported the alleged fraud to the police. It was gathered that Adekoya had contacted Uzodinma for the supply of jewelry, including wristwatches since January, but the supply had yet to be received. The police source, who spoke to our correspondent on the condition of anonymity, said Uzodinma was suspected of allegedly perpetrating a shady deal after she cut off communication with Adekoya as soon as payment was made for the supply of the items. “The suspect’s motive became suspicious as she immediately cut off communication as soon as she got the money from Mr. Adekoya. She absconded and disconnected every communication link with the victim. She was trailed and subsequently arrested,” the source said. Speaking to our correspondent, Adekoya said the suspect betrayed the trust he had in her, adding that he never thought she could obtain such an amount of money from him under false pretence. He said he had known Uzodinma for about two and a half years, but had never had any business transaction with her. Adekoya said, “I couldn’t believe what was happening when Uzodinma suddenly disappeared with my money and no supply of goods; I thought I was dreaming. I made the payment since January 6, despite the fact that things were not very robust, being the beginning of the year. “I had other things to do but I wanted to invest the money in business, which I thought she could supply, but since that time till now, no goods supplied and no money. She even became incommunicado. “I started looking for her and I reported the matter to the police; it was reported at the command. They set a search for her and they said I should notify them whenever she was spotted. The police eventually trailed and arrested her.” When contacted, Uzodinma, who is now on bail, admitted duping Adekoya of the money. The suspect, however, maintained that she would not be able to refund the money as she had exhausted the fund. “We had a business deal, but everything went wrong at a point and we couldn’t continue. He has been trying to get to me to get back his money, but at this moment, I have finished spending the entire sum of money,” she said. The Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, Chike Oti, confirmed the matter. He said the suspect would be charged to court, adding that she would be rearrested for prosecution. “Uzodinma was reported at the command by one Mr. Adekoya Kehinde for duping him of N5million in connection with a business transaction. She will be charged to court to be prosecuted,” the PPRO
said. 