Two residents of Adeniji Adele community, identified as Ridwan, aka True Colour, and Soji, have been hacked to death with machetes by some suspected cultists, who stormed the area. The gory incident, which has led to palpable fear in the community, occurred when the suspected cultists attacked a residence, where a family was having the Easter celebrations. A source hinted that the foiling of the cult group’s attack by residents later led to a reprisal by the same group that ambushed some of the residents while returning home in the early hours. A resident, who narrated the incident to our correspondent, Wasiu Toriola, explained, “The hoodlums had earlier come to Church Street, where someone hosted an Easter party, but the boys there foiled the attack. But in the morning around 4am, when the residents were returning home, the cultists ambushed them and injured several people, killing two.” Another resident, who simply identified himself as Jimoh, explained that the suspected cultists killed one Ridwan, otherwise known as Two Colour, when they attacked him where he was sleeping outside his house with a ‘poisonous’ knife. “Ridwan was sleeping in front of his house like every other person in the area because of heat. Meanwhile, the cultists had been fighting since 2am. On getting to where Ridwan was, around 4am, they met him and his brother, but his brother, having sighted them, had quickly run for his life. But before Ridwan could attempt to run, he was stabbed with a ‘poisonous’ knife. All efforts to save him were not successful, because the poison had penetrated him deeply,” he said. Jimoh added that the other person also killed by the suspected cultists was attacked around Access Bank road within the community. “The other person that was killed was Soji. The cultists chased him at that same hour. Some people that witnessed the incident said Soji was brought down, when he tripped on a stone. Immediately he fell down, they descended mercilessly on him with a machete,” he said. A resident, who didn’t want his name mentioned, also alleged that the rampaging suspected cultists killed the victims. “I was at the balcony of my house and I saw them live. They included: Mario, Obeke, Karimu, Ishan, Dada, Biggy, Dudu, and Ope. They were all with machetes and two of them were holding guns. I had to immediately lie down, when I saw them, because they might come back for me, if they had seen me,” he
said. Meanwhile, late Ridwan’s elder brother, who simply identified himself as Baba Fathia, has called on the police to bring the killers of his younger brother to book. “I am appealing to the police to help us bring the killers of my brother to book. My brother left his room early in the morning because of heat and decided to lie down on a bench outside the house, only to be killed by these useless people. Government should, please, help us to get them because they have thrown our family into sudden mourning,” he said. It was also gathered that several victims of the suspected cultists had been receiving treatment at the Lagos Island General Hospital. It was also learnt that police operatives at Adeniji Adele, after receiving information on the evil perpetrated by the suspected cultists, had swung into action and arrested two suspects. One of the suspects was arrested with a gun. Meanwhile, a woman leader within the community, Mrs. Ola Williams, has called on Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and the Lagos State Police Commissioner, Edgal Imohimi, to quickly move into action to check the activities of hoodlums and suspected cultists in the area, especially as the election period
approaches. “Governor Ambode and the Commissioner of Police should, please, move into action and stop the dastard act by these people because election is coming. If nothing is done now, that means during election people will desert their various homes. So, the governor and the police boss need to move fast to save us immediately,” she said. The Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, Superintendent Chike Oti, confirmed the incident, adding that investigation was ongoing with the aim of nabbing the evil perpetrators. “Police have already commenced work and investigation on the case, and we will not stop to ensure that peace reigns in every part of Lagos State,” he said. 