…as Deji insists Isolo can’t have an Oba Kingmakers from Isolo, a community in Akure, Ondo State, have reportedly gone into hiding, following Wednesday’s detention of four of their colleagues by the Ondo State Police Command. The chiefs are currently at loggerheads with the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, over the installation of a new monarch at Isolo, which the Deji, who is the paramount ruler in the area, considered illegal. The four High Chiefs who breathed the air of freedom after over 24 hours in police detention, are: Omotayo Joshua, the Olisa ; Ibukun Adetoyinbo, the Elemo; Abiola Ogunjemilusi, the Sao , and Ezekiel Babatunde, the Olosunla. The detained chiefs were mostly in their 80s. One of the chiefs, who preferred anonymity on security grounds, recounted their ordeal in an interview with our correspondent, saying four of them were summoned by the state’s Deputy Commissioner of Police, who did not release them until the following day, after they had been made to sign a peace agreement under duress. “But before we were released, the state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Gbenga Adeyanju addressed us, apologizing that he did not know that our case is at the Supreme Court. He said we should go home and maintain the peace,” the chief recalled. Already, the kingmakers have said the installation of their new traditional ruler has come to stay, thus putting them on war path with the Deji of Akure, who frowned at the action. The Isolo kingmakers had installed Oba Olanrewaju Idowu, Abibiri V, as the new Osolo of Isolo at dusk last Friday, to beat a marching order by the Deji, that the installation should not take place. The Osolo stool became vacant following the death of the former monarch, Oba Kayode Oluwatuyi. Rejecting the new Osolo through a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Michael Adeyeye, the Deji said, “It is laughable that the appointment was made in the middle of the night at a secret location in Akure,” adding, “This appointment defies all logic known to Akure’s tradition and appointment regarding the appointment of a chief.” The Deji also insisted that “the Osolo remains a chief in Akure as affirmed by (a) Court of Appeal judgement.” But in a swift reaction on behalf of Isolo kingmakers, the Elemo of Isolo, High Chief Ibukun Adetoyinbo, said the Deji had no right to dictate who rules over Isolo, saying the community is one of the towns that formed the Akure confederacy and as such, could not operate under the control of the Deji. Adetoyinbo, in a chat with our correspondent in Lagos, recalled, “Akure people, under the leadership of Oba Gbogi, had invited the kingdoms of Isinkan and Isolo to move closer to them in order to form a confederacy against the aggression of Edo warriors and invaders in 1770 AD. “It was after the Edo warriors were repelled that we decided to become one under a confederacy, which does not in any way make the Deji superior to the Osolo or the Osolo inferior to the Deji.” He said that it was in the best interest of the Deji to remove himself from the king-making process at Isolo, noting that it was a taboo for the Deji to be involved as any Deji that involves in the crowning process may not live to see the next year. Adetoyinbo said that Isolo is an ancient community in Yorubaland, stressing that the first Osolo who started the community in 1348 A.D also founded the Meruku market, “which is still in existence till today.” He explained that Isolo never sued Akure or the Deji, wondering how the royal father came about a judgement that Isolo could only lay claim to a chief and not Oba. . “We challenged the government to give the Osolo his staff of office, and we were granted recognition. Akure now challenged the authority of government, we won at the High Court, then they went on appeal, they won. Then we took our case to the Supreme Court. Osolo’s stool is not in dispute, isn’t that laughable?” He asked. The Elemo said that there could be no vacuum in the filling of the throne and cautioned the Deji to “stop trying to intimidate the people of Isolo. “The Deji has no right to crown a king for Isolo. All the Chiefs of Isolo Kingdom are happy and excited over the choice of their new king. All the chiefs of the kingdom thundered their unity as men and women of authority to hail the ascension of Oba Idowu to the throne,” he claimed. But Adeyeye, the Deji’s CPS, scoffed at Adetoyinbo’s claim, saying it was only intended to create confusion in Akure. He warned that the order of the Deji was still in force, and that Idowu could not be an Oba in the community. “Any attempt to defy the Deji’s order will amount to an attempt to defy the court order. It is a case of committal. I am sure you are aware that the Appeal Court had delivered his judgment in 2012 which reversed the upgrading of the Osolo and Iralepo Chieftaincy to the status of an Oba. The said judgment still subsists. “As we speak, Mr. Amos Idowu has gone into hiding as has committed a criminal offence by making a self-declaration as an Oba,” Adeyeye claimed. 