…as bank customers apprehend fleeing suspect Five men have robbed a woman at gunpoint, after she finished using an Automated Teller Machine in the Ladipo area of Oshodi,
Lagos. The incident occurred at the ATM gallery in front of a bank at about 2:00 pm. Our correspondent gathered that one of the suspects was, however, unlucky as he was caught while trying to escape from the scene of the crime. The suspect, identified as Jude Obioma, 24, was apprehended by other ATM users at the
facility. It was gathered that the apprehended suspect was “mercilessly beaten” by the angry youths, who caught him as he fled along with his accomplices. The victim, Mrs. Veronica Martins, had just finished using the ATM and was heading back to her car when the suspect accosted her and mischievously distracted her by calling her attention to something on her
cloth. It was learnt that while the victim was being distracted, his four other accomplices swiftly snatched her bag and also demanded her ATM card. Martin was said to have at first resisted the order, but quickly complied when the suspect pulled a gun and pointed it
at her. After the robbers had collected the victim’s valuables, they were said to have run towards a waiting brown Toyota Corolla car, in which they drove
off. While fleeing the bank premises in order to join his accomplices in their waiting car, Obioma was, however, caught by other bank customers. Narrating her experience, the victim said, “I had just finished using the ATM at a service station in the area and I
was heading back to where I parked my car, when the boy (suspect) mischievously distracted
me by motioning that something had stained
my dress. “As I was examining my cloth, four men approached me, grabbed my bag and demanded my ATM card. And I just withdrew some money, which I kept in the bag. I wanted to protest, but when they pointed a gun at me, I gave them both the bag and my
ATM card. “They immediately ran into a waiting brown Toyota Corolla car and sped off. But the boy was caught as he was about to join them in the car. They could not wait for him because I had already raised the alarm.” Martins said the suspect was severely beaten by the mob, who demanded that he returned the bag and the ATM
card. However, the valuables were not in his possession and, “This further infuriated the mob, who intensified his beatings,”
Martins said. The suspect was later handed over to the
police. 