Mursty Adinoyi is the producer-presenter of the award-winning entertainment programme, Hitlist N Cruzin. He speaks with Oseyiza Oogbodo about his new programme, AIT Music+, which he says was conceived with only one objective in mind: the development of Nigeria and Africa. Excerpts:  What’s the latest project you’re involved in?
The latest about Emrose Adinoyi Productions, you mean. OK, good. Right now, we have a great and wonderful world class production, which is in conjunction with Africa Independent Television. It’s called AIT Music+. We call it world class because it’s not just viewed in Nigeria, it’s as well viewed in Europe. We air in Nigeria 2pm on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and then on AIT International, it’s 4.30pm to 5.30pm daily, Monday to Friday. So, if you’re in Europe, you’ll watch the show every day. You said AIT Music+ is a world class international programme?
Yes. You need to watch it and you’ll see the quality we’re giving. Virtually everybody in Nigeria keeps saying their brands are international. So, what’s actually ‘international’ about AIT Music+? Is it ‘international’ just because it’s showing in Europe?
It’s not just because it’s showing in Europe. It’s the quality of what we’re giving. Look at the standard, you’ll believe me that it’s the best thing to happen to Africa. It’s the best right now in Nigeria representing Africa in Europe. So, the quality is what stands it out and stands us out, alright? We’re producing on high definition, for God’s sake. So, that’s the best of camera. The best of equipment that’s being used all over the world is what we’re using. So, of course, that’s world class. And then look at the quality of what we’re doing and then again it’s, of course, international. If you produce in Lagos, Nigeria or in Nigeria, Africa and it’s being viewed on the best of AIT, that’s AIT Network, that is the best when it comes to entertainment in Nigeria as well as in Europe, then of course it’s international. Is there a statistic of its viewership?
The programme started in December 2017, and already it’s gaining momentum seriously, you know. You don’t have advert placement unless you have eyeballs. So, if you have a programme that started in the second week of December and already started having adverts from the second edition, that tells you that immediately we aired the programme, viewership started increasing. That belt is already a must-watch belt right now. What’s unique about its content? Are you saying you’re doing something that hasn’t been done before?
Yes. You see, the whole thing about entertainment industry in Nigeria becomes what it is today because of AIT. I’m telling you that’s where everything started from. Now, for a long time, every other person’s doing that. But we have to redefine who we are as Africans, OK, so the best way to do it is through the best way we’re doing it right now. When you watch AIT Music+, there’s so much to gain out of it. You’ll understand that the culture is there, the beauty of Africa is there. It’s not just about the videos we play, alright? We have little breakers that as time goes on we’ll keep on introducing them gradually; that will show you the beauty of Africa. We shouldn’t wait for people to tell us about Africa all the time. We should be able to tell ourselves how beautiful blacks are. Like I said, entertainment became what it is now because of AIT. You see the chain reaction. Look at stars that Nigeria has produced. Now another one is here. It’s called AIT Music+, which is to as well take it to another level. We have to maintain the development brought about by AIT. How to maintain it is to create a programme that will as well do more in promoting African music to the international world, alright? Like, in Nigeria, we might play foreign videos. Why, because we just want our viewers, our followers to as well be in tune to know that, ok, this is as well fresh in America and we have it here for you. But in all, what we’re actually looking at is to be able to project what we have. Today, we have superstars, musicians, as products of AIT that started it and others now followed up and we’re creating stars. But we need to do more and create more stars because if you develop a single person, that person too will develop another and the chain reaction will lead to the development of so many people. So, that to me, is a way to develop Africa. And why TV is important in developing Nigeria is that people watch TV and do what they see on screen. So, if we keep on telling ourselves that we’re the best, we keep on telling ourselves the good story of who we are as Africans, believe you me, before you know it, people will now start thinking of how we can actually do it well and become the best as Africans. Today, our music is being accepted all over the world. If you’re a musician, I think the best place to be is AIT Music+. You said AIT Music+ is to help people and Africa grow. How do you actually intend to do this?
Right here, we don’t take money to play music videos. As far as your video is good, we’ll play it, and nobody will ask you for one naira. That is number one. Now, secondly, the programme is still new, but I’m telling you, it’s like letting the cat out of the bag. We have Projects AIT Music+ that’s going to come later. In there, you are going see a lot of things that we plan to do. We’ll also have campus shows in the sense that we’ll organize shows in NYSC camps in major cities in Nigeria every year, which will, of course, help to develop our education as well, telling the youths, some of who feel oh I don’t want to go to school, know that you need that education. That you’re a carpenter, we’ll talk to you that look, do not just depend on what your master taught you about carpentry. Design more, do more creativity, and if you can achieve that, look at the level you’ll go, because we can gather, say, 15 carpenters, or furniture makers to design something about Africa. Whoever wins will take this. And we’ll not air it only in Nigeria. We’ll air it as well in Europe. And this will, of course, help to develop that sector as well. So, AIT developed music. AIT Music+ will develop music plus every other sector. 