Lagos industrialist and engineer, Mr. Kayode Ojo, at the weekend formally declared his intention to contest for the governorship position of Ekiti State. Ojo, a native of Ikoro in Ijero Local Government area, became the 36th governorship aspirant to declare for governor on the platform of the All Progressives Congress in the state. Speaking at the event, where hundreds of his supporters thronged the APC secretariat in Ado Ekiti, Ojo promised that he would execute policies that would touch the lives of Ekiti populace in the areas of agriculture, quality education, human capital development, healthcare delivery and other pivotal sectors of the economy, if given the opportunity. “I am determined to offer myself for service. I want to bring selfless service to Ekiti, because I am passionate to make Ekiti great in all spheres,” Ojo said. He praised the APC leaders, “for keeping the party together at this trying period,” stressing, “It is extremely difficult for opposition leaders (in Ekiti State) to keep themselves together, considering the circumstances under which you are operating. If I become the governor, I will treat this party with respect. I will work with the State Working Committee to ensure that the manifesto of the party is executed, to bring dividends of democracy to our people. “I won’t use my position as a governor to oppress the party, because I believe in party supremacy, being the vehicle that brought me into governance.” Earlier, the Ekiti APC had allayed the fear being entertained by some governorship aspirants that an influential candidate would be imposed on them, assuring that the party would not rig the May 5 governorship primary in favour of any
aspirant. The Deputy Chairman of the party, Mrs Kemi Olaleye, gave the assurance in Ado Ekiti on Thursday when Ojo visited the APC secretariat to unveil his interest in the governorship contest. Olaleye said, “We want to say without equivocation, that every eligible aspirant will be given a level-playing ground. Chief John Odigie Oyegun gave this assurance during his visit to Ekiti on March 9 and I am re-emphasising it that there is no cause for alarm. “I want all the aspirants to go to the grassroots and meet the delegates, because it is your work that will work for you.” As of now, the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Dr Kayode Fayemi, and 36 others are jostling for the party’s ticket to contest the July 14 governorship poll. However, Fayemi has not formally declared for the plum seat, but he had disclosed his intention to party members. 