The Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ekiti State, Mr. Gboyega Oguntuwase, has opposed President Muhammadu Buhari’s declaration to run for a second term in office, saying he has failed to record any major achievement in his current term. The PDP Chairman also declared that plans by a group loyal to Senator Buruji Kashamu to cause confusion in Ekiti State ahead of the July 14 governorship election in the state had failed. Ogintuwase, in an exclusive interview with our correspondent in Ado Ekiti at the weekend, said though President Buhari had the constitutional right to seek a second term, the hardship brought and the pains inflicted on Nigerians during his yet-to-be concluded first term could no longer be endured by the people. According to him, “As a Nigerian citizen, Buhari has the right to seek second term; he has the capacity to vote and he has the capacity to ask to be voted for. But whether Nigerians will not consider this his decision as an insult will be determined by the people over time. “But as far as I am concerned, Nigerians are tired of the APC government led by Buhari because they have not fulfilled any of their promises. Secondly, things are getting worse in Nigeria, economically, security wise, and corruption is very rife and even very rife now more than ever before in Nigeria according to the Transparency International. So, as far as I am concerned, Buhari has the right to say he wants to seek a second term mandate, but the people will determine his fate with time. “ Also speaking on the judgement of the court of appeal affirming his leadership of the Ekiti PDP, Oguntuwase said the decision was a “triumph of good over evil and triumph of our legitimacy over the forces of Satan that actually wanted to make sure they frustrate PDP from organising a free and fair election that will produce a credible and acceptable governorship candidate in the state.” “PDP has been facing satanic attacks, but Jehovah has decided to redeem PDP from the hands of the Burujis of this world. You know for a very long time, even at the national level, Sheriff and his cohorts waged deadly war against the soul of the PDP, but God redeemed PDP from his hands and those of his boys. The Buruji Boys in Ekiti had joined to wage their own war against the PDP in Ekiti. But thank God the judgement that affirmed our my leadership of the PDP in Ekiti today is a triumph of  good over evil and triumph of our legitimacy over the forces of Satan that actually wanted to make sure they frustrate PDP from organising a free and fair election that will produce a credible and acceptable governorship candidate. “They wanted to create the Ondo State scenario, where two people will be contesting for the governorship under two different executives and, therefore, make us to lose to our opponent in the other party. But thank God, He has put them to shame through this landmark judgement. Now, there is only one legitimate executive in Ekiti State and that is the one headed by my humble self and we give God the glory. They have not committed any unpardonable offence; every one of them is welcome back to the party.” The Appeal court sitting in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State had last Wednesday affirmed the election of the Oguntuase-led executive as the authentic leaders of the PDP in the state. The court quashed the earlier judgement given by Justice Taiwo Taiwo of the Federal High Court in Ado Ekiti, which confirmed the Chief Williams Ajayi-led faction as the validly elected State Working Committee of the party. Factional crisis hit the party following the state congress of March 9, 2017, as two parallel executives emerged from the congress with both Oguntuase and Chief Williams Ajayi laying claim to the chairmanship seat. The court had last year declared Ajayi, a loyalist of the Senator representing Ogun East, Buruji Kashamu, the validly elected chairman at the party’s state congress conducted on March 9, 2017. Sequel to that, Oguntuase had approached the court calling on the Appellate court to set aside the earlier judgement. 