Some unidentified suspected hoodlums have gone on the rampage in Sango, Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area of Ogun State, destroying property worth millions of naira belonging to a member of the state House of Assembly, Hon. Wasiu Oladeinde. Oladeinde, who spoke to our correspondent, said though other people were attacked, he was the primary target of the hoodlums. The attacks on the lawmaker were carried out on two different occasions, in February and March this year. The hoodlums, who specifically attacked Oladeide’s residence, among others in the area, vandalised vehicles and injured several people. Our correspondent gathered that the attacks on the lawmaker were not unconnected with the forthcoming 2019 general elections. Besides, it was also learnt that the hoodlums, who are still at large, attempted to invade the residence of the lawmaker three weeks after the first attack. But in the last attack, the hoodlums were stopped by the lawmaker’s guard dogs, which scared them away. While speaking with our correspondent on the development, Oladeinde said he had written the area police commander over the attacks, adding that his life was being threatened. “I have been under serious attacks in recent times. Two times within one month, I was attacked by some unidentified thugs, who invaded my community, Ado-Odo. Although the hoodlums attacked other residents and property in the area, I’m sure they specifically came for me and some of my supporters. These attacks are politically motivated,” he said. Our correspondent gathered that the hoodlums gained entry into the lawmaker’s residence located at Tarmac, Sango Ota, after pulling down the fence. The hoodlums, it was learnt, after gaining access into Oladeinde’s residence, started vandalising his vehicles and other belongings. Oladeinde said after the hoodlums had left his residence, he later discovered that his laptops, Samsung mobile phones, branded T-shirt had gone missing. He added that his posters and flyers for campaigns were also destroyed. Oladeinde said, “Obviously, these attacks are because of next year’s elections. Someone is trying to kill me. I have reported the case to the police and I am also calling on the government to protect us in this community. These criminals again came one night to attack me, but for my dogs and God, they would have launched another attack. “That night, it was my security dogs that continuously barked and charged at them, even after they had perforated several portions of the walled fence. Eventually, they ran away. Apart from my house, they have also been attacking other people in the neighbourhood. We need maximum security in this area.” Also speaking, a resident of the area, Tajudeen Ademola, said, “We have been having security challenges in our community in the past one month. They attacked like four houses on this street and they even injured some people. “We have written the police and they guaranteed us maximum security, but their presence is still not much felt. We need action from them.” When contacted, the Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the attacks. He said the commissioner of police had mobilised more officers to the area to forestall any further attacks, adding that efforts were ongoing to apprehend the perpetrators. “The Command is aware of the attacks and the commissioner has deployed more officers to the area. The suspects will be arrested and brought to book,” he said. 