The Monday, April 9, 2018 declaration by President Muhammadu Buhari that he would seek re-election come 2019, has been generating ripples, ever since the bombshell was dropped, as it were. President Buhari took the stance at a crucial National Executive Council meeting of the All Progressives Congress in Abuja, and, shortly after, jetted out to the United Kingdom “to hold discussions on Nigeria-British relations with prime Minister Theresa May, prior to the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meetings, schedulled for 18th to 20th April, 2018,” according to his aides. Assuredly, such a declaration, even if not intended, was bound to stir up a rhetorical hoopla in the socio-political hemisphere, coming after about a year of buzzing speculations, as to whether the President will re-contest in 2019 or not.   Clearly, it is the constitutional right of the President to take a second shot at the office if he so desires; but definitely, the decision to vote him in or out rests with the majority of voters, who will decide who becomes the next President of Nigeria. To that extent, there would have been no need for the system to be this heated up, simply because a President declared to his party members that he would love to run again, and assumedly before an audience comprising prospective presidential aspirants. But no, hell was literarily let loose once Buhari made known his intention at the APC NEC. Many Nigerians lent angry voices on radios and televisions; expressed scathing views in the newspapers, and also nearly crashed the social media, with spiteful comments and sundry invectives. Still, those in support of the President rose up to the occasion, defending their principal with logic and intellectual vigour; or for some, with brazen counter-attack. For over a year, the debate had dominated public discourse as to whether the President should run again or not. The initial dissonance to a Buhari re-election was predicated on perceived ill health and old age, or a copulation of the two. There was grave fear as to the ability of the President to complete this tenure because between 2016 and 2017, he had been in and out of hospital, nursing some ailment that has yet to be clearly explained by the Presidency. For months on end last year, the President was reportedly bedridden in a London hospital during which Vice President Yemi Osinbajo took charge as acting President, and during which wild speculations festered that the President was either on life-support or even dead. The undisclosed ailment, which afflicted a man at 75 – in the relative twilight of life – and kept him away from his power base for months, might have rattled the discerning mind. But, indeed, Buhari overcame his health challenge, at least going by his prevailing outward visage, except for claims by critics of slight frailties, which could have been amplified by a recent photo snap of a worship session in the Mosque, in which the President sat on a chair, reportedly indicating that he might have been unable to conduct his prayers, sitting on the floor. While the President’s image handlers easily joined the fray to disprove claims that he had not fully recovered, referring to their principal’s daily tight schedules, they also knocked down the age factor. Mr. Femi Adesina, Buhari’s Media Adviser, for instance, cited the case of Beji Caid Essebsi, the Tunisian President, who assumed power at the age of 88. He said it was an indication that the President was young enough to re-contest. But beyond the poor health and old age factors, being bandied as reasons Buhari should not re-contest, it is our considered opinion that the President’s declaration should have been particularly predicated on his performance in the over three years of the APC administration. Though the electorate is there to assess him through the ballot box, President Buhari himself should engage in an introspection of sorts, to foreclose possible humiliation at the polls, in the event that he considers his performance inadequate. The first sign that his second term ambition was unpopular came about in the sudden drop in stocks at the Nigerian Stock Exchange, to an all-time low. Barely 24 hours after the announcement, the equity market went down, close to 40,000 points. While the Buhari administration stands commended for fighting corruption and recovering stolen loot, the effort is also virtually rubbished by allegations of corrupt “untouchable” public officials under the current administration, who are reportedly walking freely because they are members of some inner caucus. The Federal Government’s roles in the recall and promotion of a former Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on Pension Reforms, Rasheed Maina, and the fraud allegations in the National Health Insurance Scheme, till date, are benumbing. Up till now, Nigerians do not have convincing explanations on why the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation awarded contracts to the tune of $25m without approval from the supervising Minister of State for Petroleum. Or, who can forget the ongoing mass slaughter across the country by arm-bearing killer herdsmen, about which the Federal Government was silent for several months until it became an inescapable scandal? Besides, this administration’s frenetic claims of having conquered Boko Haram have in the end turned a white lie, necessitating a special vote of $1 billion, ostensibly to fight the insurgency. This is aside from the ridiculous upsurge in cases of robberies, kidnapping and other
terror acts. The economic growth postulations, so far, have yet to translate into job creation as promised by the administration, or boost the common man’s disposable income, as assured before the 2015 election. Therefore, even if it is within the right of the President to re-contest, as he has indicated, he will do well to reflect on the journey of the administration so far. Declaring amidst wide concerns of a below-average performance by his administration, and without stating categorically why Nigerians should not be bothered about his health status, would mean taking the masses for a ride. 