The Peoples Democratic Party in Akwa Ibom State has described the All Progressives Congress in the state as a bad loser, saying the latter does not know how to handle defeat and play the proper role of an opposition party.
This is coming on the heels of several criticisms of Governor Emmanuel Udom by the APC in the state, over an award bestowed on him by the Nigeria Television Authority. NTA had conferred the ‘Integrity and National Service Award’ on Udom.
Irked by the bestowal, the APC in Akwa Ibom State kicked against the award, stating that the governor did not deserve it.
In a statement made available to The Point, the State Publicity Secretary of APC in Akwa Ibom, Barrister Edet Eyo Bassey, lamented what he described as the embarrassing absentmindedness of the NTA in conferring an award on the PDP-led government in the state.
Bassey disclosed that Udom was fond of criticising and insulting the Buhari administration, either directly or through proxies, hence, should not have been honoured by a Federal Government-owned media outfit like the NTA.
He stated that Edom’s Special Assistant on Media once said that President Muhammadu Buahri’s cows were better fed than most Nigerians, noting, “Why should someone who thinks so low of the President be honoured by a government media?
“NTA’s decision to honour Governor Emmanuel Udom is a display of a most thoughtless act of indiscretion and the governor has capitalised on it to declare that he has been adjudged to be performing even by the opposition party, whereas in the real case, he hasn’t done anything.”
Bassey disclosed that Udom’s government throve on propaganda, as the governor had failed on its electoral promises to the people. He accused Udom of indulging in wasteful spending of state resources, adding that “the governor’s ineptitude and inefficiency have led to killings and wanton destruction of lives and properties.”
But in a swift reaction, the PDP Publicity Secretary in the state, Comrade Ini Ememobong, submitted that the NTA was a national institution and not a party organ and as such, the media platform should be nationalist in approach, irrespective of party affiliations.
He noted that NTA beamed its searchlight on many Nigerians and found the governor of Akwa Ibom State worthy of an award, adding that the governor was not someone “who shops for awards.”
He dismissed the criticism and castigation that had trailed the award on the governor as the ranting of bad losers, who did not know how to handle defeat and who still found it difficult to come to terms with the fact that they were in the opposition in
the state.
“Governor Emmanuel Udom is not an award freak; he does shop for awards. He has often said that he didn’t come for the applause, he came for the work but when someone does very well, the applause and accolades necessarily follow,” he added.
Ememobong also said it was unfortunate and absurd “that the APC in the state descended so low to vilify the hardworking and dedicated governor of the state, who is striving to give the people of the state purposeful leadership, adding that APC should put its house in order before pointing accusing
fingers.”
“The opposition party in Akwa Ibom State is lackluster, lacking in logic and largely irresponsible. What people should help them do is to ask them to learn how to run a functional office in Uyo; the APC does not have a functional office in the state. Its secretariat in the state is always under lock and key,” Ememobong said. 