 Former Nigeria National Basketball team captain, Olumide Oyedeji, has hailed the contributions of one of Nigeria’s foremost sport philanthropist, Malik Shahin, saying he is a man worthy of emulation. Shahin, the Managing Director of Afrab Chem Pharmaceutical Company, was recently conferred with an honorary chieftaincy title as Basegun of Imeri Kingdom in Ondo State. Speaking exclusively to The Point, Oyedeji said he was present at the occasion to reciprocate the kind gesture Shahin has given to Nigerian youths in the area of sport development. ‘’I am here to honour Shahin with my presence, because, he had been supporting me in my various basketball youths programs, tailored towards identifying and nurturing young basketball players at the grassroots level. ‘’Many young Nigerians youths have benefited from him. I call on other rich Nigerians to emulate him by leaving their comfort homes and reach out to rural areas as part of corporate social responsibility, ‘’ Oyedeji said. Shahin, in his response, said that the honour bestowed on him was a call to do more. ‘’The genesis of this event was purely borne out of business adventure with the state government from my company, which, as time passes, metamorphosed into interest in community investment and youth empowerment. ‘’In line with my company’s cardinal objectives of identifying the need of our host community, I have never shied away from fulfilling our corporate social responsibility as a caring organisation, which I intend to replicate here. ‘’I have personally identified several opportunities in this community and I will muster possible resources to harness and develop infrastructure that will change the face of employment for the youths. ‘’ I will support the youths in this community in area of education and sports. ‘’I am now a bonafide son of this community and will stand by you to make this community great,’’ Shahin stated. Klaudia Shahin, Malik’s wife was also installed as Yebasugun of Imeri Kingdom. Meanwhile, the Onimeri of Imeri Kingdom, Oba Babatunde Adeniran, at the installation, said the honour was a way of reciprocating and showing appreciation for Shahin’s gesture to the community. The traditional ruler called on individuals and corporate bodies to emulate Shahin in reaching out to rural areas as part of their corporate social responsibility. 