Ndukwe Ikoh, a former guber candidate on the platform of the Progressive Peoples Alliance  in Abia, has stated that Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose, cannot rule Nigeria because of his temperament. The associate of former governor of Abia, Orji Uzor Kalu, said this in response to Fayose’s warning that the businessman should not visit Ekiti. Kalu, the Chairman, Advisory Board for the National Movement for Re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari, is currently on tour of the South West states. Reacting, Iloh described Fayose’s action as an over play of politics. “Both men have been friends for a long time even though Kalu rightfully calls Fayose his boy because he was a senior member of the PDP”, he told Sun. “If Fayose who is dreaming of becoming president would have the tendency of restricting Nigerians from entering any state, then he does not deserve the position. “If he understood politics and what it means to mete out such treatment to a personality of Kalu’s status, he should know that there is no place in Nigeria in which Nigerians should be refused entry, except if you are coming with arms to fight. “Kalu went to Ekiti to talk peace and I want to thank him for that. Nigerians may not know the depth of what Kalu signifies in this country until we look for him and don’t find him. “For him to use his resources and go out of his way despite his tight schedule to talk peace, I think Nigerians should listen to him and not the Ekiti governor. “He may be afraid that Kalu would overshadow him because you cannot place Ronaldo and an Enyinmba player on the same field and you wouldn’t have the issue of complex. “Fayose knows very well that when Kalu puts his mind to something, he achieves it. There is no living politician that has the kind of connections that Kalu has; that is a fact. So when he embarks on a mission, he means business. “I also believe that in playing his role as an opposition governor, he always likes to dance to the gallery because he knows that Kalu came to talk peace and drum support for Buhari that is why he was throwing tantrums to take the shine away from the successful tour. “Unfortunately, it backfired because he tried to restrict a Nigerian from entering a territory that he controls and that makes him unqualified to be president anytime,” he said. 