An undergraduate of the University of Uyo, Joel Benedict Ekpo, is now in a critical condition, following a gun attack on him by suspected robbers. The robbers, who are now at large, shot the victim on the forehead after dispossessing him of his
phone. It could not be ascertained whether the suspects were members of a cult group or hoodlums. Our correspondent learnt that Ekpo, a 200 level Biochemistry student, was returning from a tutorial class to his residence located outside the campus, when he was attacked. The attack occurred at about 10:00 pm. Ekpo, 21, was said to have mistaken the suspects for the men of the vigilance group in the area, when he approached them at the scene of the attack. Our correspondent learnt that Ekpo was shot by the hoodlums when he was fleeing the spot of the incident after his phone was snatched from him by the suspects. The bullet reportedly hit a part of Ekpo’s forehead when he attempted to look back at his assailants, who fired a shot. The 200 level Biochemistry student immediately slipped into a coma as a result of the gunshot. He was said to have been rushed by some of the residents to the University of Uyo Teaching Hospital. Speaking to our correspondent, Ekpo’s father, Mr. Benedict Ekpo Akpan, said he was notified by his son’s landlord, who called to inform him of the incident. According to him, his son was accosted by the hoodlums shortly after he greeted them and walked past them. When asked about the condition of the victim, his father said, “The doctor told us that he suffered a low fracture, but no damage was done to his brain. He (the doctor) also said that some particles were found scattered in his skull.” The father of the victim said his son was in stable condition and responding to treatment, adding that he was now an outpatient at a private hospital. The victim’s father said the matter had yet to be reported to the police as at the time of filing this report. He, however, solicited financial support from members of the public to assist in meeting “the increasing cost of Ekpo’s
treatment.” He said the assistance could be made in Ekpo’s account at First Bank (Account number: 3083994855). He commended the university’s students’ union body and his faculty for their efforts. Also speaking on Ekpo’s ordeal, a senior colleague of his at school, Damian Egbom, said, “He was coming from night class around 10pm and was going to his lodge, which was off campus, when he met some men, who he thought were vigilance group members. “He greeted them and as he passed them, they followed him and started beating him. They collected his phone. He managed to break loose from them and as he was running, he heard a gunshot, which prompted him to look back. When he did, a bullet hit him at the side of the forehead. And that was all he knew. He later found himself at the University of Uyo Teaching Hospital, four days after the incident.  It was some people who took him to the hospital.” He said the incident had been reported to the authorities in the department and faculty. 