A recent statement by the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, that corrupt judges were a disgrace and disaster to the country’s judiciary was weighty, but the home truth. The CJN’s assertion certainly calls for deep thinking and reflection on the damages being done to the image of the judiciary by judges acclaimed as corrupt, in the country. The CJN, who spoke at the opening ceremony of the 2018 Refresher Course for Judges and Kadis, held at the National Judicial Institute, Abuja, vowed to tackle corruption in the judiciary, head-long, in order to weed out “questionable characters from the Bench.” Onnoghen might have had some cases of senior judges in the temple of justice battling one corruption charge or the other, in mind. This spectre has since been known as the consequence of under-cover investigation of the activities of some High Court, Appeal Court and Supreme Court judges, either by the anti-graft bodies or the Department of State Service.   Though the approach deployed in investigating the judges had come under attacks in some quarters as grotesque, vindictive and uncivilised, the truth still has to be said that, the man with a blood-stained attire, is the first suspect in a bloody attack investigation. As the CJN rightly emphasised, corruption in the third arm of government is not only limited to bribe-taking, but also includes the giving of judgements or orders, based on any consideration other than legal merit. A combination of power, responsibility, and humanity accounts for both the most exemplary and, sometimes, regrettable judicial conducts, and that is why judges must exercise decorum in all their undertakings. Whereas judges must dispense justice with impeccability, incorruptibility and unquestionably sound judgments, corrupt judges have by their actions and miscarriages of justice, demeaned the prestige of the Judiciary. Indeed, the prestige of the judiciary is indispensable in a democratic system of government, where the Judiciary functions independently so that it can discharge its duties effectively. It is against this backdrop that we commend the effort being made by the National Judicial Council to weed out corrupt judicial officers from the judiciary. In particular, we commend its recent establishment of the Corruption and Financial Crimes Cases Trial Monitoring Committee, aimed to serve as a check on the excesses of some bad eggs in the Judiciary. That some judges are corrupt is a reflection of the corruption in the public service and the society at large. However, it must be noted that many corrupt practices walk on four legs, as it were, at the lower courts, particularly in the magistrates’ courts, where many people buy judgments. Many have also attributed the corruption in the Judiciary to the low salaries of judges. Their salaries are at variance with the volume of work that the judges are supposed to do, they claim. Added to the litany of challenges of the Judiciary is the inadequate funding of that all-important arm of government at the state level; a situation which calls for urgent attention and redress. However, it must be stated that the Judiciary in Nigeria is one of the best in the world, and, just as in other countries’ judiciaries, it has its own bad eggs, which if not weeded out, could smear the image of the entire judiciary of the country. Henceforth, recruitment of new judges must be based on rigorous screening, thorough background checks and painstaking appointment procedures, to ensure that the best in terms of learning, character and composure are appointed to the Bench. In addition, those appointed as judges must be people of good character, who are bold, courageous, firm, and are ready to serve on the Bench without fear or favour. The court is the last hope of a people. Therefore, judges must dispense justice dispassionately: they must not only be seen to be just, but must also provide quality judicial services. The judiciary must ensure that the common man can approach the court with confidence, knowing that access to justice is for all citizens. It is needless to say, however, that judges are literally next to God, since by their judgements, they sometimes decide whether someone deserves the death sentence or not. At the same time, speedy and expeditious resolution of cases before the courts is paramount to ensuring justice. Situations where matters before the courts are unduly adjourned without good reasons, denigrate the image and character of the courts. Under the probing watch of the newly constituted monitoring committee, judges must avoid such unwarranted adjournments, so that the Judiciary can continue to enjoy the high confidence reposed in it by Nigerians. Again, the monitoring committee must be grave in its assignment, and ensure that justice, at its level, is devoid of any form of influence, and that politicians do not use it as a tool to cow otherwise forthright
judges. Above all, considering the volume of job that the judges do and the solitary life they live in order to do their jobs without interference, they deserve the best their career can offer. Their wages should be favourably decided with what is commensurate with their inviolable services, to insulate them from
corruption. 