A septuagenarian, Francis Igboka, has allegedly raped a 10-year-old girl in Upata, Ahoada East Local Government Area of Rivers State. Our correspondent gathered that the suspect was caught in the act by a neighbour, Chris Chima, who stumbled on the scene of the rape. The suspect, it was learnt, lured the victim with “assorted biscuit and juice.” The rape allegedly took place at the residence of the suspect, located at number 16, Ada Street, Upata, at about 3:00 pm. Our correspondent, who was informed by a resident of the area, Michael Olaoluwa Davies, authoritatively gathered that Igboka, a grandfather, raped the victim (names withheld) at the back of his apartment, when many of the occupants of the building had gone to work. It was further learnt, however, that unknown to the suspect, a few other tenants were still at home when he lured the victim to the back of his apartment and sexually abused her. It was gathered that the suspect, who had been separated from his wife for over four years, lives with a 14-year-old houseboy, simply identified as Martins. The houseboy was said to have gone to the market, when the incident took place. The parents of the victim were also not at home when the suspect assaulted the minor. She is the eldest of three children. The two younger siblings, aged eight and six, had gone to play at the next building when the alleged rape occurred. Our correspondent gathered that Chima, who reportedly caught the suspect in the action, had gone to the back of the building to look for an item. He consequently raised the alarm, which drew the attention of two other adult neighbours, who were at home. Both Chima and the two co-tenants reportedly dragged the 70-year-old man out on the street. It was gathered that the development informed a mob action during which the suspect was beaten and tied to a pole. Davies told our correspondent on the phone, “Today in my area, I witnessed what I have not seen before; grandpa who raped a 10-year-old girl. The man lives down my street. He was caught by one of his neighbours, Chris, who saw him raping the girl at the back of his house. When he raised the alarm, other neighbours came out and they dragged the man out of their compound to the street, where many youths started
beating him. “When I heard, I rushed to the scene, but before I got there, they had tied him to a pole. I wanted to beat him, too, but I left him. They would have beaten him more, but because he is
old.” When contacted, Chima said, “I just returned from nightshift that day and I was just taking a short rest, when I suddenly remembered I needed to cover my generator kept at the back of the building. That was what I wanted to go and do, when I stumbled on Mr. Igboka raping the girl. I was shocked because I didn’t expect it and I shouted. My shout drew the attention of other neighbours, who rushed out and saw what he was doing. “We dragged him outside and everybody saw him and started beating him. We were reluctant to beat him because he is our neighbour, but the girl’s parents are nice people and so we could not hide it. We needed to expose him. At that time of the day, many people had gone to work, but the children just vacated from school. It was on Wednesday.” According to Chima, the victim confessed to the act, saying the suspect had not done such before. She said though the suspect had been giving her biscuits and other things, he had never attempted to rape her. “The girl said that was the first time he slept with her, but he had been giving her snacks and drinks,” Chima said. When our correspondent contacted the father of the victim (names withheld), he said, “It is still like a dream to us because we never could have thought that baba (the suspect) could do this. My wife is still in shock at the
moment.” The result of the test carried out on the victim confirmed that she was sexually assaulted. “The suspect has been arrested and detained at the area police division (Ahoada). He is expected to be charged to court,” the victim’s father said. 