Following the recent release of the results of the 2018 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, candidates and parents have continued to react. JAMB had initially released the first batch of results in the first week of the examination, while over 1.5 million results were later released on Tuesday, March 20. Our correspondent, who spoke to some candidates in Lagos, learnt that, while many had been able to check their results, some others complained that they were still finding it difficult to access it online. Adeyemi Alao, a candidate, described the entire process the results had to undergo as fair. According to him, his performance in the UTME was better than what he experienced with the mock test written earlier. Alao said, “I scored 230 and I’m happy with the result since it is above the cut off mark. At a point, one was not sure what to expect again, because it was taking longer than usual before the results were released, especially when I realised that some people that wrote UTME after me had been able to see their results before I did. “Before now, every time I checked, it was either saying I did not sit for the examination or that my result was not ready, until I was able to finally access it last night. I think the examination was fair; while a lot of us had high scores, a few of my friends had quite low points.” Another candidate, Chisom Uche, said she scored high, but a little less than she got in previous examinations. Uche, who sat for the examination a second time because she couldn’t gain admission in 2017, said that her 2018 score was satisfactory. She described the examination as tough, but noted that it was nothing compared to the tension of waiting eagerly for the result almost a week later. Similarly, another candidate, who pleaded anonymity, said that the waiting for the release of the results put a lot of candidates under tense feelings. According to her, she and her younger sister sat for the examinations a day in between, but her sister’s result had yet to be displayed on the JAMB portal. She lauded JAMB’s efforts to ensure fairness in the entire process. 