 …Late President served Nigeria well -Tinubu …He’s a true believer in indivisibility of Nigeria – Gov. Umahi Oluwatosin Obajemu (Lagos) & Agnes Igwe (Abakaliki) As more Nigerians continue to pay tributes to the Second Republic President, Shehu Shagari, who died on Friday at 93 and was buried on Saturday in his village, Shagari in Sokoto State, former Lagos governor and All Progressives Congress national stalwart, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has described the late Shagari as a statesman, patriot and political stabiliser who served the country well in different capacities. He said Shagari ,who entered politics in 1951, served the country in different capacities and served well. In a statement by his Media Office signed by Tunde Rahman, Asiwaju Tinubu said, “Former President Shehu Shagari was a statesman, patriot and stabilizer who believed in and worked for the unity of this country. “He served Nigeria in different capacities -administrator, provincial secretary, House of Representatives member, minister in several ministries and president- and in each capacity he did excellently well. He contributed his quota to the growth and development of the country. “He particularly helped in advancing our democracy. President Shagari had the temperament for good leadership. He was a decent man. “In the Second Republic, as the first executive president, his was a moderating voice, a stabilising factor. Even within the defunct NPN, with all its reputation, he was of a different type. He wore integrity on his collar like a badge of honour. “His background as a school teacher, his maturity and moderation helped to mould his politics. He was true and pure.  He was humble and humane. He led a Spartan way of life. He was modest and unpretentious. Truthful and sincere. He was generally a good man. “He saw the good qualities of his political opponent, late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, he gifted him the highest honor in the land, the GCFR award. “Although we never wish our elders leave us, it is nonetheless pleasing that President Shagari left us at an advanced age.  My condolences to his family and associates. Our prayer is that Almighty Allah grant him Aljannah Fridaus. May He also grant the family the strength to live without him and to carry on with President Shagari’s legacies of commitment to national unity and excellence in service. “I commiserate with Governor Aminu Tambuwal, the government and people of Sokoto State. I commiserate with the Muslim Ulamma in Nigeria and the world.  May our country be blessed with more of people like President Shagari.” Also, the Chairman South East Governors Forum and governor of Ebonyi State, Chief David Umahi, has expressed great shock over the death of the former President, describing him as a great icon in ensuring indivisibility of Nigeria. Governor Umahi in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Emmanuel Uzor ,described the death of Shagari as a national loss and prayed for the repose of his soul. He said the former President was to the country a bridge builder, a true believer in the indivisibility and equity of the nation, a man who laid a solid foundation for the development of the nation.Umahi prayed that all would emulate the selfless and committed leadership styles of the late President. “His death is a personal loss to me and the patriotic citizens of Ebonyi State. He was to Nigeria, a great leader, he believed in Nigeria. He was a great friend to Ndigbo, having worked with one of our illustrious sons, the late Alex Ekwueme as his vice. ”As Nigerians mourn this great Iroko, it is my earnest prayer that we learn from his selfless leadership and commitment with which superintend the affairs of Nigeria as our first civilian President,” he added. 