Former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo has condoled with the Sokoto State governor, Hon. Aminu Tambuwal and the people of the state on the death of former President, Alhaji Shehu Shagari on Friday night. Obasanjo, in 1979, handed the reins of power to the late Nigerian leader under democratic process, becoming the first Military head of State to have successfully did so. The incumbent President, Muhammadu Buhari went on to overthrow the government in 1983. Shagari died after brief illness at the National hospital, Abuja on Monday night at age 93. Obasanjo, who had called the family  to commiserate with them, immediately the news broke, stated in the letter to the State governor, that Shagari was a man of honour and an achiever. The copy of the letter, which was made available to newsmen through his Media Aide, Kehinde Akinyemi on Saturday, further eulogized Shagari’s roles in the country’s pre and post Independence politics. The letter reads: December 28, 2018
His Excellency,
Rt. Hon Aminu Waziri Tambuwal,
Governor of Sokoto State,
Government House, Sokoto,
Sokoto State. It is with a heavy heart that I am writing to say how deeply grieved I 
was to hear of the death of His Excellency President Shehu Usman Shagari. On behalf of my family and on my own behalf, I wish to commiserate with you, the entire members of his family and the good people of Sokoto State over the passing of this humble, patriotic, amiable and notable Nigerian leader. I would like to express my deep respect for the achievements of 
President Shehu Shagari in the course of his long life as one of the principal actors in Nigeria’s pre-independence and post-independence politics. He held various positions as a parliamentarian in the Federal House of Representatives representing Sokoto West in 1954, as a Parliamentarian Secretary 1958-1959, as a Federal Minister and Commissioner in different Ministries and capacities between 1959 and 1975. I remember his role as Commissioner for Finance while he and I served in the government of General Yakubu Gowon. He was thorough. And later, I saw him as my successor in government as a democratically-elected President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria between 1979 and 1983. Indeed, President Shagari rendered 
outstanding service to our country, and we will remember his services in that respect. President Shehu Shagari was a man of honour and an achiever. In all 
his national assignments, he was forthright, dedicated and showed great commitment in the discharge of his duties. He was a unifying force for the nation and his contribution to the growth and development of democracy in Nigeria cannot easily be forgotten. In all situations, he lived nobly and he died in nobility. Let us bear in mind that we all have the opportunity to act nobly in whatever position we find ourselves. President Shagari died at a time the country and its leadership is in dire need of such leadership, experience and wisdom to tackle the multifaceted challenges facing the nation. While expressing our sympathies to you, the family of the deceased and the government and people of Sokoto State, we pray the Almighty Allah grant him eternal rest and give comfort to all those he left behind.”  