On July 2, 2017, the Daily Trust on Sunday in its page 3 comment or editorial on the prowl of the Boko Haram insurgents captioned, “Army,  Finish the Job in Borno.” In today’s article, I caption the same for reasons of similarities or compelling exigencies. Part of the Daily Trust comment on July 2, 2017 reads, ”Repeated attacks by Boko Haram insurgents on the expansive premises of the University of Maiduguri (Unimaid) are a setback for Nigeria in the war against the insurgents. They are also a reminder that the war against the deadly and misguided sect is far from over and it requires another all out effort by the armed forces, the Federal Government, all security agencies and renewed active cooperation by our neighbours and by our friends in the international community to bring this terrorist menace to an end once and for all.   “The latest, dispiriting attack took place on Sunday last week, Sallah day. Borno state Police Commander Damian Chukwu, who gave details of the attack, said eight members of one family were among 16 people killed in multiple suicide bomb attacks in Maiduguri on Sunday night to Monday morning while 13 others were injured. He said nine attackers sneaked into the city at night, broke into groups and went on the attack selected targets with a view to disrupting Eid celebrations. Among other targets, a male suicide bomber entered Unimaid’s premises and set off a bomb strapped to his body near the Rapid Response Services Office building, injuring three university security staff, one of whom later died in hospital. “Four female suicide bombers attacked other locations in Maiduguri that night but at 4 o’ clock in the morning, two more female suicide bombers again entered Unimaid and exploded bombs near the Entrepreneurship and Skill Acquisition Centre and behind the Works Department. Luckily, they killed only themselves. City residents could not sleep that night because apart from the explosions, soldiers and policemen were firing throughout the night in order to scare off other suicide bombers. Some Maiduguri residents thought a major battle was underway. “We hereby urge the Acting President Yemi Osinbajo to once again restore the fight against Boko Haram to the top of the national agenda, secure all necessary weapons and ammo for the military, seek the active participation of our neighbours in a renewed push and actively seek major assistance from the world’s military powers in order to finish this job once and for
all.” Sadly, Borno today is back at this odium of repeated Boko Haram attacks or making harvests of the lives of the people , including the soldiers. From Molai, Dalori, Polo in the state capital to Konduga, Kala Balge local government areas down to Metele, the insurgents did which they are known and best at doing-killing, destruction and stealing. The latest atrocities of the terrorists was visited on the 157 Task Force Battalion in Metele where undisclosed number of soldiers were reportedly killed, several missing in action. Unofficial report put the number of soldiers killed at over a hundred and similar number declared missing at the attacks with reported case of large cache of weapons and ammunition allegedly carted away by the insurgents. In all these attacks, deaths, blood and sorrow remain the bane of the people and every living soul in the affected zone is a living corpse as death especially from the insurgents could
strike. There have been reactions from all nooks and crannies of the country to this sudden upsurge of the insurgency which beats the imagination of the people who before now have been assured that Boko Haram harvest of deaths is gradually becoming a thing of the past. However, latest events have brought the people to nights of vigil of prayers, eyes wide-opened and ears to the ground. A group tagged “Save our Soul” few days back staged a public protest in Abuja in reaction to repeated upsurge of the insurgency especially, to the recent killing of soldiers in Metele and called on the Federal Government to bring once and for all the end of terrorism. President Buhari condemned the barbarism and Metele appealed to Nigerians not to politicize the deaths of the soldiers at
Metele. In a swift reaction to boost the morale of the troops in the affected zone, the military shifted the 2018 Chief of Army Staff conference from Benin to Maiduguri penultimate week where President Muhammadu Buhari opened the conference, addressed the troops, visited the wounded soldiers and called on the Shehu of Borno, His Royal Highness, Abubakar Umar Garbai El-Kanemi. President Buhari assured the soldiers of total commitment of the federal government to their welfare incentive wise and in provision of necessary logistics and materials. While pledging that the military would remain apolitical, Lt General Tukur Buratai, the Army Chief of Staff called on the soldiers to defend the nation in true honesty and purpose. On its part, the Minister of Defence Mansur Dan Ali explained that he was already in contact with his neighbouring countries colleagues on how to effectively fight the insurgency. Governor Kashim on his part praised the President for the success recorded so far and kudos to the military in the war against the
insurgency. No doubt, the military in the war against the insurgency has given account of itself. The insurgents have been degraded and the decimated but they are still around. It is their rigmarole here and there that is causing more of headache, nightmare, ruins, deaths and destruction to the nation that now have no
peace. Nigeria cannot continue in this uncertain journey of liberation or salvation aimlessly. There must be an end to this war that has eaten deep into the fabric of the nation especially in the economic sense and security wise. The more this war lasts, the more the nation remains in problem. Prolonging this war for whatever reason or reasons means prolonging our woes. If we do not end this war now or as quickly as possible, the war (no one prays) will end us. Remember, Boko Haram has various dimensions – economic, political, religious or criminal. There is need for change of tactics and strategies, there is need for effective intelligence gathering, there is need to involve the locals, the traditional institutions and other stakeholders. There is need to trace the sources of funding, the sponsors, the accomplices. There is need for inward looking of the military to flush out the fifth columnists who no doubt are double agents and leaking the secrets to the enemies. There is need for total involvement of neighboring states to check border infiltration of the insurgents. There is need for
all stakeholders especially in Borno to agree on how to effectively fight the insurgency to the present half-heartedly approach and even sabotage by some of the elite. We all must cooperative with the military in honesty and in one spirit to fight this monster now. If we adopt carrot approach, we must fully appreciate the implications. Above all the military must know and should know that it is its full responsibility to defend the sovereignty of a nation when threatened and this it must do in accordance with the oath taken
by its member. Total mobilization of the military is imperative as the nation waits for it to finish this war without further delay. Procrastination and delay are
dangerous. *Izekor, a journalist, public affairs analyst, is a member of the Board of Advisers of The Point. 