The Peace Accord Initiative of the National Peace Committee towards a peaceful 2019 elections suffered a setback on Tuesday as former Vice- President Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples’ Democratic Party, Donald Duke of Social Democratic Party (SDP), Kingsley Moghalu of Young Progressives Party (YPP), Oby Ezekwesili of Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), Omoyele Sowore of Action Alliance boycotted the peace accord signing held in Abuja. Though the NPC said it sent invitation to all 73 political parties participating in the Presidential elections , Atiku through the PDP campaign organisation said he did not receive an invitation to attend the event. The event presided over by chairman of the committee and former Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar, was however attended by President Muhammadu Buhari and 68 other Presidential candidates. Abubakar in his remarks noted that the importance of peace for a credible election cannot be overemphasised While appealing to the various Presidential candidates to lead by example urged them to refrain from making utterances that would heat up the polity. He therefore urged them to lead by example and temper their utterances and action with responsibility and patriotism. Abubakar raised alarm over what he described as subtle incitement coming from religious houses noting that it was capable of endangering democracy. Former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon in his keynote address stated that the signing of the peace accord is a positive development for the country. “The beauty of democracy is that it avails citizens the right to have a say in how they are governed. Military incursion into our politics has led to misery and underdevelopment of our richly endowed nation and contributed to defective democracy. All hope is not lost for the enthronement of true democracy in the country, which is why we must commend the NPC in sensitising everyone that elections are not do- or- die contests. We should encourage them to consolidate on the successes of 2015, so that we can have even better polls in 2019. 