A panel beater, Biola Oladeinde, has asked the customary court sitting in Ake, Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital to dissolve his 14-year-old married with Asisat Oladeinde for allegedly using security officials to threaten his life. Biola, who dragged his wife to court in a suit numbered C/35/2018, said that Asisat was fond of threatening him with soldiers and police to force him to pay for the upkeeps of his children. The father of four explained that since the family of his wife came to pack her belongings out of his home two years ago, his wife had been harassing him with security operatives in order to force him to pay a monthly allowance of N20,000. He said his wife had dragged her before a human right organisation at the Governor ‘s office, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, where he was asked to be paying N20,000 monthly for the welfare of his children. Biola  who is seeking a divorce with his wife on the ground of  provocation, incessant fighting, lack of care and threat to life, told the court that he was tired of his union with his wife who always threatens him with soldier or police. He, therefore, urged the court to eject Asisat out of his father’s shop at Ita Eko, Abeokuta, saying that she has no right to use the shop since she had taken him to the human rights organisation, adding that he needed to take over the shop in order to be able to pay the feeding allowance  from the proceeds. According to him, since he got married to his wife 14 years ago he had no peace of mind. He had reported her to her family but said the effort did not yield any meaningful result. He asked the court to grant him the custody of his children for proper care. He said, “My wife is fond of using soldiers and policemen to threaten me to pay the sum of N20,000 monthly for the upkeep of my children after she packed out of my house in 2016. “I am tired of this marriage and I want this court to dissolve our marriage because my wife does not give me peace of mind and will always ask me for the N20,000 before the months ends. “l want  this court to dissolve our marriage on the ground of provocation, no rest of mind, frequent fighting, lack of care and threat to life. I want this court to eject her from my father’s shop at Ita Eko and also stop her from coming to my house or place of work to foment trouble”. The wife did not appear in court. The President of the Court, Mrs O. O Sam Obaleye therefore, adjourned the case to January 8 for further
hearing. 