 It might be surprising to know that even many health workers do not know much about it, hence, they rarely suspect it. It is good for our young women to know and even parents, especially mothers to be aware of this health condition, Endometriosis. It is a silent but growing health condition which predisposes women of reproductive age to ill health, infertility and severe periodic pains. Available statistics indicates that Endometriosis affects an estimated 170 million women worldwide and occurs when tissue similar to the lining of the womb is found elsewhere, most commonly on the ovaries, in the recto-vaginal septum, bladder and bowels.  The tissue bleeds every month, can cause severe and chronic pain and makes life generally painful and miserable for the affected woman.  I recalled how my immediate younger sister always has very terrible abdominal cramps particularly during her menstrual period. We first thought it was normal menstrual pain as many usually suspect. The cramps were unbearable. An abdominal scan later showed she had fibroid. Even after the surgery, the pain just kept getting unbearable. Many women go through this pain on a monthly basis, some twice in a month. It is that bad. Before you are through with the stress on one round, another one is here. Experts have said it could be a pointer to Endometriosis. If the pain is outside of your period it is equally a warning sign. Anybody going through this should see a good gynaecologist as it is generally believed that it is easier to manage an abnormality if it is detected early enough. It can be hereditary and there are different stages of pain. I pity my sister so much because whenever it is time for her period, she does not usually find it easy at all because she would be rolling all over the floor in serious pains throughout the period. As part of efforts to raise awareness and educate the public about early diagnosis and timely intervention for Endometriosis among Nigerian women, the Endometriosis Support Group Nigeria, ESGN, revealed that the body is targeting over 10,000 people through public education and awareness in 2019. Disclosing this during the investiture of the MD/ CEO, Risk Analyst Insurance Brokers Limited, Mrs. Funmi Babington- Ashaye, as 2018 Endo Ambassador, the Founder of ESGN and the Managing Director, Nordica Fertility Centre, Dr Abayomi Ajayi said series of activities had been lined up for 2019. As an Endo Ambassador, Babington-Ashaye would use her good will in the media to drive knowledge and awareness about endometriosis condition by lending a voice to the cause. “Our mission is to increase Endometriosis disease recognition, provide advocacy, facilitate expert surgical training, and fund landmark Endometriosis research in both the medical community and the public. “Our partners are at the core of our organisation. They make up our Support Network, which allows us to reach and make a difference to women struggling with the effect that endometriosis has on their lives. Through these initiatives, the Foundation places emphasis on the critical importance of early diagnosis and effective intervention while simultaneously providing education to the next generation of medical professionals and their patients.” Ajayi concluded. 