It was the legendary Dr. Tunji Braithwaite, a former Presidential candidate in the Second Republic, who made the plea for change in one of his numerous manifesto speeches: “Fellow Nigerians, the country is in a terrible state of decadent paralysis and there is no point heaping the blame on the discontinuous politicians that have ruled our lives for so long. Together with you, let us
make the change …”. The late legal colossus and  Nigeria Advance Party presidential standard-bearer promised to give Nigerians  a better living condition and modern social system. It is instructive to note that this postulation is, in fact, an amplification and hallmark of what the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, the late Gani Fawehinmi and others
stood by
and for. A peep into the ethos of the past administrations (civilian and military alike) that so much elicited the change mantra is that over the years, governance has represented every other interest other than the people – the masses. Against this background , it could be termed a big fraud, if government derives its legitimacy and power from the people. This has been an age-long battle and a daggers-drawn situation with the protagonists of change till today. The fact still remains that positive change has been most elusive as regards good governance in Nigeria. Yes, positive change in terms of people-oriented programmes, addressing the fundamental needs of the downtrodden - food, employment and modern social amenities - such as good and affordable housing schemes, passable road networks,critical infrastructure, good healthcare,quality and qualitative  education for the people,among others. One of the greatest cankerworms that has bedeviled governance in Nigeria is lack of CONTINUITY. Apart from corruption, it is ubiquitous, whether at the federal or state levels, even within the same party, continuity remains dreaded and elusive.  Without ant doubt, successive administrations from independence have turned out to be worse off in virtually everything, save the Muritala Mohammed, Buhari/Idiagbon interregnum.
Why? Largely, NO CONTINUITY. For example, after a two-party arrangement in  the 1993 general election produced the widely adjudged freest election in the land which produced the business mogul, Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola, as the winner,  although the election was unreasonably annulled, years later, a Daniel came to judgment and the annulment was reversed. The point being made here is, if a policy has produced a good result, it should be consolidated upon by the next government. But the next government simply disregarded the two-party arrangement through the Electoral Commission and opted for another option, which has created so much
problem till today. However, Lagos, a cosmopolitan state and unarguably the nation's commercial capital in Nigeria seems to be detached from this malady, especially with the advent of Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who from political obscurity, became a Senator and today has become an enigma of sort. The transformation of Lagos, the new Lagos,  began from his administration and afterwards, he successfully bequeathed a legacy that is not just worthy of note, but worthy of emulation – a legacy of continuity which engendered the transformation Lagos is experiencing today in terms of better living conditions and modern social system fostered also by Babatunde Raji Fashola and Akinwunmi Ambode. The baton of continuity is set to be passed to Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu. Indeed, Lagos cannot be more assured, insured and secured. Lagos State has over this period witnessed a massive boost, monumental transformation and a meteoric rise to the first among equals. Now, for a gubernatorial candidate in Lagos, who is fast becoming a serial gubernatorial loser,  to choose to play politics with the very instrument that has brought Lagos to this enviable feat,  is the height of hypocrisy, sycophancy and dis-service to the good people of Lagos he aspires to lead. Otherwise, how else does one interpret his assertion that Sanwo-Olu is Tinubu’s whatever term in office. Away! with discontinuous pseudo politicians. The same genuine passion to lessen the burden of the downtrodden is what Bola Ahmed Tinubu is instilling in the Buhari/Osinbajo administration, which is evidently robbing off on the administration. Buhari cannot but be qualified for second term in office. Apart from being bold enough to frontally confront the number one enemy plaguing governance in Nigeria, CORRUPTION, and his readiness to continue to combat the hydra-headed monster fighting back. Today, trillions of Naira, Pounds, Sterling, Dollars even Euros have already been recovered and been put to good use. In the agricultural sector, a kind of revolution has been achieved. This government has been able to save $21 billion from food importation that are now produced locally .These would, ordinarily, have been imported e.g. rice. More so, bags of fertilizers now get to the real farmers directly as gone are the days when these facilities were diverted to private pockets and political farmers without a parcel of land. Another landmark gain of the government is the implementation of the legendary Single Treasury Account,  which has eliminated ghost workers drastically and other sharp practices nipped in the bud. The road networks embarked upon by the government, especially Lagos-Ibadan expressway, the Abuja-Kaduna railroad, have reduced cost of transportation of agricultural products coming in from various parts of the country. The power generation effort of this government is also worthy of note. The Power Minister, Babatunde Raji Fashola,  disclosed recently that an additional 3,000 megawatts have been added to the 3,000MW making a minimum of 6,000MW as at today. The implication of this is that, what this government achieved within four years is what it took Obasanjo, Yar’ Adua and Jonathan to achieve in 20 years. Today, unlike before now, Nigeria is no longer a laughing stock among the comity of nations as recognition and respect is daily being accorded our president. This is the structural change and super-structure on which a new Nigeria like New Lagos is built. This is the time
for continuity. It is a matter of time that , undoubtedly and in a short while, the gains of this government would be visible. This is a feat that former President Olusegun Obasanjo and self-styled military President Ibrahim Babangida acknowledged in the first and second letters they wrote to President Buhari before their vacillation. Quite frankly,  their vacillation cannot and will not change the “Noble Cause” providence has bestowed on President Muhammadu Buhari for these perilous times. Let us expect the consolidation of the gains, the real reason he deserves a second term. AYO-PHILLIP is of the Media and Publicity Directorate of Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu Campaign Organisation, Ikeja, Lagos. 