Two suspected armed robbers operating on a motorcycle have shot an accident victim at Satellite bus stop, Lagos. The victim identified simply as Joseph aka Banky, was said to have been driving to his residence at Abule- Ado, along the Lagos- Badagry Expressway when a vehicle hit his car from
behind. Joseph was said to have decided to park his car on the roadside to see the extent of the damage the accident had caused to his car when the incident occurred. Suddenly, two men riding on a motorcycle appeared at the scene and one of them pointed a gun at him. Joseph was said to have immediately handed over some cash and his two mobile phones to the suspected robbers, who later shot him in the neck. According to an eyewitness, James Onu, "The incident and accident occurred  at about 7.30pm near Satellite Town bus stop, along Lagos- Badagry expressway, Lagos. I know the victim. His name is Joseph but many called him Banky. He was returning home when a vehicle hit his car from behind. He decided to park his vehicle very well to examine his car and know the extent of damage. Unknown to him, two men on a motorcycle were monitoring him.
Immediately he alighted from his car and walked to the back of the car, the two men got off from their motorcycle and walked towards him and one of the armed robbers pointed the gun at him, ordering him to surrender all the valuables with him or they would kill him. “The man cooperated and gave them all the cash on him and his two handsets. As if they were not satisfied with what they got, one of them shot him in the neck. Immediately people around heard the gunshot, everybody scampered to safety. After a while, people went to see the victim who was in the pool of blood and gasping for breath. He was later rushed to the Navy Hospital, in the
area."A woman selling fruit in the area, but spoke on condition of anonymity said ,"Anyway, one man was shot on this expressway near Satellite bus stop in the night. A vehicle hit his car and he decided to look at the damage done to his car.
When he alighted from his vehicle, the other vehicle that hit him had to overtake him there.
At that juncture, two armed men on 'okada' went to the man and after they brought out their gun, which one of the robbers pointed at him, collected his money and handsets and still
shot at him. They shot him in the neck. We heard that the man lives at Abule- Ado, which is not far from here. Those who know him came with other sympathisers and rushed him to the hospital here at Satellite Town.
I also heard that his family later transferred him to a private hospital at Surulere. May God help him to
survive." 