Edo State House of Assembly appears set to unravel the circumstances that led to the abandonment of the ultra modern central hospital Benin, three years after it was commissioned by President Mohammad Buhari on the invitation of the former governor Adams Oshiomhole in 2016 . There had been hue and cry on the parlous state of the hospital since it was commissioned as the opposition party had accused the previous administration of using the hospital as a conduit pipe to siphon tax payers money to the detriment of the masses.  The Edo State House of Assembly during in its plenary,recently,  acted on the petition from the ‘Talakawa Parliament’ and signed by Marxist kola Edokpayi, Emmanuel Agbogun and Wilson Imasuen prayed the house to investigate the circumstances that led to the abandoned Central Hospital Benin. The speaker of the Assembly, Rt. Hon. (Alhaji)  Kabiru Adjoto, in his proactive nature constituted the Ad-hoc committee headed by the member representing Etsako Central Constituency and House Committee Chairman on Appropriation, Hon Damian Lawani. Other members of the Committee are Hon Victor Ojo Asein representing Owan West Constituency, Hon Foly Ogedengbe representing Owan East Constituency, Hon Eghe Osazewinde representing Ovia North East Constituency
one. Others are, Hon Godwin Adenomo representing Ovia south west Constituency, Hon osaigbovo Iyoha representing Oredo Constituency and Hon Monday Ehighalua representing Esan west Constituency respectively. The Committee was mandated to visit the hospital, invite the company that installed the facilities, for questioning, professional bodies in the health sector and relevant agencies whose informations would be vital and helpful to the committee to come up with a far reaching recommendations to address the parlous state of the hospital . The Committee has two weeks to summit its  report to the House of Assembly for consideration and to look for the way
forward. The Speaker also announced a slight adjustment on the headship of the House Committee on Youth and Sport now being headed by Hon Godwin Adenomon while Hon Osaigbovo Iyoha still retains the information
committee. In line with the Rules of the House for Civil Commissioners to defend the budget allocated to their ministries, the speaker directed the various House Standing Committees Chairmen to invite the Civil Commissioners of the various Ministries to defend the 2019 budget allocated to their ministries with a view to entering appearance before the house committee on budget, appropriation and projects monitoring. The House also considered a bill for a Law to repeal and prohibit the membership and existence of ‘Secrecy Cults’ in Edo State as contained in a letter signed and addressed to the speaker, by the Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki. The bill was referred to the House Committee on Rules and Government House for consideration. Before the House adjourned its plenary to the 10th of December, the Deputy Speaker, Rt Hon Dr. Justine Okonoboh drew the house attention to the observation of World Obesity Day on the 26th of November every year by the World Health Organization to raise awareness on the causes and prevention. According to him, “Obesity leads to high blood pressure, diabetes, and kidney failure, which amounts to unquantifiable number of death among Nigerians,” he said with
seriousness. 