Some aggrieved residents and family members of Baale Olatifede in Olatifede village, Iwo Local Government area of Osun State on Friday embarked on a peaceful rally to push for the approval of Mr Rasaki Akande, as baale Olatifede by the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdul-Rasheed Akanbi, Telu I. The procession criticised the purported plan to install a younger candidate in place of Pa Akande, a septuagenarian whom they said is most qualified to occupy the position. During the rally, the Baale Oloba Olatifede family and other members of the community carried placards bearing captions such as: ‘We appeal to Kabiyesi Oluwo to approve the installation of Pa Rasaki Akande as our baale’; ‘Baba Akande is our choice; let’s follow tradition’; ‘We are for peace and justice. We want Pa Akande for fairness’. Speaking on behalf of the group, Mr Adams Akande, said: “Our message is clear and we took to the streets as well as the palace to ventilate our demand. Our call is simple; we are appealing to our royal father, the Oluwo of Iwo to accede our demand for adherence to tradition on contest for the position of baale of Olatifede. There are procedures to follow set by our predecessors in filling or nominating candidate to the chieftaincy stool of Olatifede. Filling the position should, ordinarily, not degenerate into controversy because there is an age-long practice of installing the eldest male in the family”. A communiqué addressed to the Oluwo, signed by head of the Oloba Olatifede ruling family, Staff sgt. AbdulMojeed Agbaje (retd.); Secretary to the ruling family, Pastor Isiaka Akanji; and Community Leader of Oloba Olatifede, Hon. Sunday Salawu, (not dated) read in  parts: “There is a norm and tradition. The eldest son (in the ruling family is) to fill the vacant stool of Baale.” Unless the eldest son is mentally retarded or not of sound in mind or when a candidate is seen to have bad antecedent, the communique said, “the eldest son should fill the vacant stool." Pa Akande further stressed that ordinarily, there should not be contention on the rightful person to fill the vacant position because “as the eldest person, I am unarguably the next baale. The family took a unanimous decision to forward my name to Kabiyesi (Oluwo) but Adewale is making moves to circumvent the age-long tradition. “The entire community and its council, the Oke Oba Parapo adopted me as the next baale, so there is no room for arguments about the whole matter. I am surprised about the development. Adewale wants to use money to buy the stool.” Mr Morufu Adewale, stepbrother to Pa Akande, said in a telephone interview that he was very qualified for the position as a bonafide member of the ruling family. Insisting that he is the best candidate for the position, Adewale stated that: “I left the village (Olatifede) 31 years ago and still met it the same way; nothing has changed since then. Akande who is claiming right to the position is hated in the village. I will spend my time and money on the village as
baale. While addressing the procession at the palace of Oluwo, Secretary to the Oluwo, Kamoru Ademola, assured the people of Olatifede of Oba Akanbi’s readiness to ensure that justice and peace are guaranteed. 