Amina, wife of late chief of Gwom-mama chiefdom in Wamba Local Government Area of Nasarawa State, Alhaji Adams Zubairu, has been sentenced to death by hanging after she was found guilty of killing her husband with poisonous substances. The accused person was reportedly found guilty of murder following thorough investigation. It will be recalled that the late paramount ruler was murdered on the eve of his wedding. It was gathered that some poisonous substances, suspected to have been used on the late chief, were found in his residence leading to the arrest of his wife. The accused person was charged to court on a one count charge of homicide. The Point gathered that Amina was sentenced to death by hanging more than four years after being charged to court.  Justice Aisha Bashir of the Nasarawa State High Court 2, while delivering the judgment, said having carefully studied the case before her, the court found the accused person guilty of killing Alhaji Zubairu, her husband. She was, therefore, sentenced to death by hanging under Section 221 of the Penal Code. Speaking shortly after delivering the judgment, the prosecution counsel, Barrister Jibrin Aboki, commended the presiding judge for her fairness saying the judgment would serve as a deterrent to others. Attempts by The Point newspaper to speak with the defense counsel, Barrister S.K Sheltu, proved abortive as he was unreachable at the time of filing this report. A businessman, Suleiman Sani, described the judgment as a good one, saying that the accused person was punished in accordance to the law of the land. He said that killing of fellow human being is uncalled and unacceptable adding that anybody caught perpetrating heinous crime should be punished commensurately in the interest of societal peace. A farmer who gave his name as Thomas Ezekiel commended Justice Aisha Bashir for her boldness in delivering the judgment fairly and without prejudice. According to him, both Islam and Christianity prohibit the killings of innocent people for selfish interests. Meanwhile, the case which was filed on September 11, 2014 was opened for hearing on November 4, 2014 at state High Court 4 and later moved to High Court 2 where the judgment was delivered recently. 