  SEKINAH LAWAL   Very unlike many Nigerian parents, the father of Farouk Abdul-Mutallab, who was arrested in 2009 with explosives on-board with over 270 other passengers, Alhaji Umaru Abdul-Mutallab, has revealed how he saved the lives of over 270 passengers by reporting his son’s strange behavior to security agents. He said that he was fulfilled that his decision to call the attention of the US and Nigerian authorities to the strange behaviour of his son was able to save those lives. He, however, admitted that as a father, his son’s incarceration is a pain he would bear till eternity. Speaking at the World Human Rights Day organised by the Human Rights Monitor Agenda, HURMA, where he was honoured with People’s Friendly Personality Award for his philanthropy gesture, he expressed the belief that having spent a decade in solitary confinement, his son, who has been kept incommunicado, would have been remorseful. Represented by the Chief Executive Officer of Jaiz Charity and Development Foundation, Imam Abdullahi Shuaib, the renowned philanthropist urged the authorities in the United State and Nigeria to revisit the life sentences given to his son. According to Imam Shuaib, Abdul Mutallab is a man that has zero-tolerance for religious extremism. “He was the one that alerted the Nigerian and American security agencies when he observed strange behaviour in his son, urging them to profile him and monitor his activities. At that time, he saw some behaviour that were completely contrary from what he knew about his son. The 2009 event vindicated him that the boy was threading a dangerous path.” “Each time I discussed with him, he tells me that Imam; ‘I have done my own as a Nigerian; I have been able to save the lives of over 270; because if that bomb had exploded, we are talking about 279 lives that would have been lost. He said he was fulfilled that he was able to save those lives.” “He said he wouldn’t know if it would be possible in his life time for him to see his son but if it is the wish of God that the son is not released and he leaves this world, so be it. “For almost 12 years or so, the son is kept in a solitary confinement where he doesn’t interact with any human being even at the point that if he is to be given food, it is through an automatic system that would provide the food. For a son who cannot even say whether it is morning, afternoon or night, you can really imagine the kind of trauma it is for the father. “He was brainwashed; he was indoctrinated with evil doctrines. Over the decade, he has shown remorseful. The authority that be should revisit his case, reintegrate him back to the society and use him as an ambassador of peace, preaching against act of terrorism. That is the only way through which the world can begin to make the best use of those who have fallen into that path erroneously to re-orientate others still living in that kind of situation.” Also speaking at the occasion, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Dr Muiz Banire called on the government of the United States to revisit the case of Umar Faoruk Abdul-Mutallab who has been convicted and handed multiple life sentences in the US. The young Abdul Mutallab was convicted in 2012 for an attempted terror attack on Northwest Airlines Flight 253, after he was found with underwear strapped with explosives. He was sentenced to four life terms plus 50 years without parole and incarcerated at ADX Florence, the Supermax Federal Prison in Colorado, United States. Banire expressed optimism that the American judiciary could revisit Abdul-Mutallab’s case. “My message to the US government is to have a reconsideration and review of the situation born out of exuberance. It is something that may need review and reorientation as a personality,” Banire concluded. 