Preparations for the 2019 general elections among political parties across the nation are already in top gear. Political parties and gladiators are no doubt leaving any stone unturned to ensuring that there victory is certain in the contests. Top among the contest which has attracted attention from international community is the presidential position. The position which is currently occupied by the candidate of All Progressives Congress, President Muhammadu Buhari, will be contested by no less than 30 candidates of different political parties.  Despite the number of contestants that are vying for the number one citizen position, attention of most Nigerians seems to be focused on the candidates of both the ruling party APC and the major opposition PDP. Meanwhile, political analysts across the country have advised Nigerians not to limit their choice of candidates to the duo but to rather explore  candidates of other political parties who might have brighter and better ideas of governance. According to them, believing that the choice of the next president of the country should be between President Buhari and Atiku may amount to another four years journey in oblivion, adding that other candidates foremother parties should be considered. A cleric, Pastor Adewale Giwa, while speaking on the development called on Nigerians to reject Abubakar and Buhari, saying  they both have nothing good to offer the country. Giwa said there was the need for Nigerians to look beyond the two leaders. According to Giwa,  ”Atiku or Buhari won’t take Nigeria to anywhere. I see desperation in their eyes . What they want is to impoverish the poor people more. Buhari has been there for almost four years, what has he done to wipe away tears from Nigerians? Atiku was the vice president of this country, under his watch, what happened?    He added, “Atiku and Buhari can be likened to the story of Saul and Samuel’ sons, Joel and Abijah. Joel and Abuja were appointed by Samuel father to be Judges over Israel. “These two sons of Samuel never behaved like their father. They took bribes and denied people justice. This made leaders of Israel to approach Samuel and demanded to appoint them a king. After all said and done, Saul came to be as the king of Israel. They thought the administration of Saul would be better, but to find out that Saul too was corrupt. God said he regretted to make Saul the king. “So, there is no difference between Atiku and Buhari. Nigeria needs a young and new leader who can lead the country in a right direction unlike the names we have been hearing for a long time.” A political analyst from Ondo State, Adeyemi Olalekan, said Buhari and Atiku have no power to solve enormous problems besieging the country. “Atiku is not in any way better than Buhari, neither does Buhari better than Atiku . Voting either of them is a waste of another four years. Nigerians need to be matured from deceit of money
and other frivolous things they use in wooing them on termly basis. Let us have a set of new names in our politics who are well educated and who understand modern governance. “We cannot continue like this, if not, generations behind us will not be happy with us,” he said. The national chairman of Young Democratic Party,  Chief Mrs Georgina  Dakpokpo,  while speaking with our correspondent, said the focus on  Atiku and Buhari alone indicates that Nigerian  democracy  is unripe.  She added that though the two major political parties in the country appear to be financially bouyant than others,  they do not possess democratic tenet as some of  the younger political
parties. “These (Buhari and Atiku) candidates are not in any way better than other candidates.  Moreover,  they have exhausted their capacity in governance.  We have all known there worth.  It it time Nigerians look beyond them.  Both parties have demonstrated what they can do to the citizens and I don’t t think there is more good things they can offer them.  If Nigerians care, they should look beyond the two candidates for a better future, ” she said. The national chairman of National Conscience Party,  Alhaji Tanko Yinusa, said Buhari and Atiku are analogue candidates who have no clue of what governance in the modern day is. “Looking beyond these two candidates will do us a great advantage in Nigeria. These candidates have shown what they can do to us. Buhari in office has showed us what he can do in the last three years, while Atiku in his eight years as vice president had also demonstrated to us that he has nothing to offer this country. Both of them cannot fit into digital democracy, they are analogue candidates who know little or nothing about what democracy is in the modern age.  Nigerians should chose wise in 2019 if they don’t want to continue to wallow in the current quagmire we have found ourselves,” Yinusa
said. Meanwhile , a senatorial candidate of Action Democratic Party,  Erasmus Ikhide, said,  “Both Atiku and Buhari have no plan to improve the situation of things in  Nigeria.  The choice  of the two candidates is an option between the devil and the deep blue sea.
Both of them  have struck the citizens with much poverty.  Look at the minimum  wage issue,  is N30,000 too big for this government to pay? This is one of the conspiracy by these people.  Nigerians must opt for credible alternative in the coming election.  We cannot continue to remain on a spot. Atiku or Buhari should not be and option for every reasonable Nigerian when there are credible options
around.” Recall that no fewer than 30 candidates are contesting for 2019 presidential position. They include President Muhammadu Buhari –  APC,  Atiku Abubakar –  PDP, Donald Duke – Social Democratic Party,  Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim – Alliance for New Nigeria , Omoyele Sowore – African Action Congress,  Oby Ezekwesili – Allied Congress Party of Nigeria,  Obadiah Mailafia – African Democratic Congress,  Kingsley Moghalu – Young Progressive Party, Chris Okotie – Fresh Democratic Party, Hamza Al-Mustapha – Peoples Party of Nigeria, Habib Mohammed Gajo – Young Democratic Party, Olusegun Mimiko – Zenith Labour Party,  John Gbor – All Progressives Grand Alliance, Davidson Isibor Akhimien – Grassroots Development Party of Nigeria, Ali Soyode – Yes Electorate Solidarity. Others are Ike Keke – New Nigerian Peoples Party,  Sunday Chukwu-Eguzolugo – Justice Must Prevail Party, Eunice Atuejide – National Interest Party,  Hamisu Santuraki – Mega Party of Nigeria, Edozie Madu – Independent Democrat Party,  Peter Nwangwu – We the People of Nigeria Party,  Ahmed Bee Buhari – Sustainable National Party,  Tope Fasua – Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party, Ade Fagbenro Bryon – Kowa Party,  Moses Shipi – All Blending Party,  Yahaya Ndu – African Renaissance Party,  Chuks Nwachukwu – All Grassroots Alliance,  Habu Aminchi – Peoples Democratic Movement, Yabagi Yusuf Sani – Action Democratic Party, and Babatunde Ademola – Nigeria Community Movement
Party. 