Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Tuesday in Abuja urged Nigerians to believe in him and President Muhammadu Buhari to move Nigeria forward. Osinbajo made the appeal at a National Consultative Forum organised by the National Committee of Buhari Support Groups (NCBSG) in collaboration with Council for New Nigeria Initiative. According to him, the fear of Buhari was making some detractors lose their senses. “The present government is earning 60 per cent less than the previous government, yet it has spent N2.7 trillion on infrastructure, the highest in the history of the country.” “The Buhari-led administration had done much because it was not stealing money; was doing major roads in 36 states–Lagos Kano railway, Warri, Aladja, Mambilla, Port Hacourt, Maiduguri among others” “So despite the fact that we are earning 60 per cent less we are doing five times more. This is why there is a gang up by the discredited elite against him. “They prayed for him to die, he didn’t die. When he came back hale and hearty by the grace of the Almighty God, they mourned while Nigerians rejoiced. ”The fear of Buhari makes these people desperate even crazy. So now they say he is Jibrin from Sudan. If you can’t discredit him say he doesn’t exist; they were all alive and well when Pastor Adeboye went to London and prayed for him the day before he returned to Nigeria. “How will one Jubril sit in Federal Executive Council and conduct meetings, consult with his ministers, speak to me daily? “Their strategy is simple, if you tell a lie often enough some will believe you; Buhari is not only alive and well, he will by God’s grace live long and well after his second term in office,” he said. Also speaking at the event, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, National Leader, All progressives Congress expressed optimism that the party would emerge victorious in the 2019 presidential election. “We have the capacity in this country to do irrigation; utilise our water resources; to create green pastures and ranches. “We will convert that mystery; that tragedy to opportunity to our people; we have higher institutions which have conducted various studies on ranching; we can only change the way of life of some people. Speaking further, Osinbajo promised that herders will have greener pastures. “Let’s build schools; let’s build ranches and ask the animals to be in one position and create opportunities for farmers to provide animal feeds; even animal dung will become manure and will create a bigger economy. “We can create slaughter labs and abattoirs; we can hygienically transfer those feed in a cold storage—transportation; that is equally business. “We can easily take those animal skins to make shoes, handbags, belts, and turn our locality to China and export. “We are not going to cry; feel sorry for ourselves; relinquish our responsibility because we are thinkers and doers; we will convert it to prosperity. Believe me and believe Buhari,” he said. 