The Peoples Democratic Party on Friday disclosed reason Nigerians must “directly” hold President Muhammadu Buhari responsible for the missing students of Government Girls Science and Technical School in Dapchi, Yobe state. PDP said Buhari has put Nigerians at risk by deceiving them and issuing false performance indices suggesting that insurgents have been completely routed. A statement by PDP spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan said the situation made “unsuspecting citizens trust a lie and dropped their guards in the face of real threats and danger”. While commiserating with family members of the victims, the former ruling party called on “security forces to insulate themselves from APC propaganda, take very decisive professional steps to recover our girls and end the killings in our country. The statement reads, “Without doubt, if the incompetent All Progressives Congress (APC)-led government had not dished out lies to the people in a bid to score cheap political points for its ill-lucked 2019 re-election bid, more precautionary measures would have been adopted by the affected communities to ensure adequate protection. “While Nigerians are appalled by APC’s recourse to false indices in critical sectors, it is however, to say the least, an inexcusable height of wickedness to give a vulnerable people a false assurance of security when they are actually in danger. “Furthermore, the PDP decries as iniquitous, the efforts by APC-controlled federal authorities to suppress information on the abduction, leading to conflicting reports and frustrating of rescue mission, just because they seek to hide the failures of the presidency in ensuring the safety of Nigerians, particularly in the north. “We were shocked that in their proclivity to deceive, the authorities earlier informed Nigerians that some of the girls have been recovered only for the news to turn out to be false. “While President Buhari has not uttered any word of assurance, Government’s visiting team headed by the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed only had a whistle stop at the Dapchi school and made no effort to interface or even commiserate with community leaders and parents of the abducted girls, while completely shutting out the media. This only further confirms APC’s insensitivity to the plight of Nigerians. “It is more irking that the President and Commander-in-Chief will publicly provide a day an asymmetry war will come to an end as if acts of insurgency are fought like a conventional warfare. “It is painful that Nigerians are faced today with a government that has been heavy on propaganda and issuing of false statistics, while playing down on several atrocities committed against defenseless citizens. “Under the PDP, Nigerians were never told lies on the true situation of the state of affairs in all sectors, particularly security. The PDP-led government constantly briefed Nigerians and carried all stakeholders along in our concerted effort in securing lives and property in our nation. “Nigerians and indeed the world must hold the Buhari Presidency and the APC-led Federal Government directly responsible for the abduction of these defenseless schoolgirls as well as the killings in our country today. “While the PDP stands with the parents of the abducted girls at this moment of their harrowing pains and prays for their speedy return, we implore our security forces to insulate themselves from APC propaganda, take very decisive professional steps to recover our girls and end the killings in our country.” 