Apparently worried by the state of migrant children in Africa, European Union has partnered the Lagos State Government and Child Protection Network on the need to protect migrant children along Abidjan-Lagos in the West African coastal region. In a training programme for child protection in Lagos and Ogun states, facilitated by Terre des hommes Foundation, ENDA Youth Action, and the African Movement of Working Children and Youth, the participants were implored to bring the best out of the future leaders. The Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Youth and Social Development, Mr. Akeem Muri-Okunola, sued for cooperation of the social workers to the benefits of the children. He also urged them to be selfless in the services, rather than looking only at profit and other interests. Muri-Okunola, who was represented by the Head of Child Protection in the Ministry, Mrs. Modupeola Sahi-Adebambo, also advised Terre des hommes and participants on the need to relate with people of like minds in order to be productive. In her speech, the Head of Country Office, Terre des hommes in Nigeria, Mrs. Osoba Olapeju, said the decision to have participants from Lagos and Ogun states was mainly because the project’s intervention areas cover both states. She charged the participants to be mindful of their roles in the protection of migrant children and how important it is to advocate for their rights, adding that all children have the same rights. “The migration of people is an issue that presents us as a people with a lot challenges. People move for various reasons but most of these movements come with a lot risks and danger, especially for children who are directly or indirectly affected and who sometimes are unaccompanied”, Olapeju insisted. She further advised that the responsibility should not be left for the institutional actors, adding that community actors’ help and cooperation will go a long way to achieve a good result. “The primary host of migrant children and children on the move are the communities where they live”, she maintained. Olapeju also suggested that working directly with traditional rulers, chiefs, market leaders, religious leaders and influential people in those communities would implore their protection, reduce their risk and increase their opportunity to capacity building or skill acquisition. “Creating a synergy and a strong network among the actors will surely improve the condition of migrant children and those of children on the move”, Olapeju added. In own contribution, the state coordinator of Child Protection Network Mrs. Ngozi Okoro, said, “The training will avail the member of CPN to learn how to identify migrant children and profile them”. She also maintained that the training would empower them to have more knowledge of child protection, especially migrant ones. 