A housewife, Taiwo Oguntade , has told a customary court sitting in Ake, Abeokuta, Ogun State, that she surrendered her womb for the preparation of a prosperity charm to aid her husband’s financial standing. Taiwo, who was brought before the court by her husband, Olasunkanmi Oguntade, in a suit, CV/593/2018, for divorce, insisted that she agreed to an arrangement to use her womb to prepare a charm that would enhance her husband’s fortunes, because of the love she had for him. The woman, who lamented that she could not give birth to a child anymore,  said that she also took an oath with her husband, because he thought she might betray him one day. Taiwo said she became furious when she discovered that her husband was having extra-marital affairs with a student, who is a tenant in his house. The housewife, who accused her husband of infidelity, said that while he would only give her and their only daughter the sum of N200 as feeding allowance daily, he had once given the student N10,000 for her birthday celebration. She also told the court that her husband once beat her to the extent that she lost one of her tooth because she confronted the student and accused her of having extra-marital affairs with
him. Taiwo further also said that Bola and her friends, numbering about 20, later stormed her husband’s house to beat her up because she accused her of having sexual relationship with her husband. She said, “I used my womb for prosperity charm to help my husband financially, I even went with him to make a love oath because I love him. But I became angry, when he started dating one student in our house. He sent her N10,000 for her birthday, while he would always give me and my daughter N200 daily for feeding.” In his defence, Olasunkanmi denied ever asking his wife to use her womb for money ritual to assist his finances, saying that he dragged her before the court for divorce because she had threatened to kill him through diabolical
means. He said he had once dragged his wife, who is a member of the Oodua Peoples Congress, to the Eleweran headquarters of the state Police Command for caution about her troublesome behavior. Taiwo, 55, alleged that his wife was fond of fomenting trouble in their neighborhood, adding that her anti-social attitude had forced all his tenants to quit his
house. He said, “I did not ask my wife to use her womb for money ritual. I want to divorce her because I don’t want her to kill me with her troubles. She boasts that she would use her membership of the OPC to eliminate me, either with charm or through physical attack. “She is an unrepentant trouble maker, a pathological liar, who is not ready to settle down for any meaningful business. She makes trouble with my tenants; as a result sending all of them
packing.” 