…says Board’ll use list to approve studentship The Federal Government has directed that the National Open University of Nigeria and Distant Learning Institutions in Nigeria be included in the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board’s process for statistical purpose and elimination of fake admissions. Also to be included in the process are the schools of nursing and part time students. The Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, disclosed this while addressing vice chancellors and heads of Institutions present at the 2018 JAMB Policy Meeting in Gbogan, Osun State. Adamu said that the inclusion of this category of students will be used by the sector to get statistical records of admitted students and to stop illegal admissions. “Illegal and irregular admissions must stop, all admission lists of students will be published through the JAMB matriculation list,” the minister said. Speaking in the same vein, the Registrar of JAMB, Prof. Ishaq Oloyede, noted the decline in the statistical record of admitted students when compared with its actual number. Oloyede said, “JAMB has the records of admitted students for the past ten years and it looks like the number of students are different compared to the number of students. When we compared our statistics with that of Ghana, our number of institutions did not justify what we admitted compared to what they did, looking at the number of their institutions. They will now say Nigeria has a low percentage of admitted students; which is not so; we are doing some of the admissions under the table. “JAMB does not include National Open University, Distant Learning Institutions, part time students and school of nursing, but as directed by the Minister, the records of these institutions will be included. The Registrar further stated that anyone who did not gain admission through JAMB or was not on the JAMB matriculation list would not be considered as a student, thereby disqualifying themselves from going for the one year National Youth Service Corps. The Chairman of the meeting, Dr. Emmanuel Ndukwe, advised the board to screen students at the point of matriculation and this was approved by the vice chancellors and heads of institutions present at the meeting. 