…calls for early preparations for Qatar 2022 Nigeria’s Pillar of Sports, Chief Donatus Agu Ejidike, has expressed disappointment following Super Eagles unceremonious exit from the ongoing FIFA World Cup in Russia and called for early preparations and fortification of the national team ahead of Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup. Speaking exclusively to The Point after Nigeria’s 1-2 loss to Argentina in their last Group D match, Ejidike said he was saddened by the exit of the team but hailed the players for their dedication and patriotism during the competition. Reacting to the poor officiating that almost marred the match against Argentina, Ejidike revealed that football at international level is about managing intrigues and politics which the Nigeria football ruling authority and the technical managers, as well as the players, should be cautious about. Nigeria lost many scoring chances during the game which according to Ejidike caused the defeat to a ‘very beatable Argentina’ squad. “Coach Gernot Rohr must begin now to build a stronger Super Eagles team; he must bring in players that will deliver at any slightest opportunity. “NFF must also look beyond now and build a virile squad that will win the Africa Cup of Nations as well as make a remarkable impact in the next World Cup in the year 2022 in Qatar,” he said. The sports philanthropist tasked the technical committee of NFF to analyze critically Super Eagles performance in Russia and come up with technical report that will help to rebuild the team. “We must not wait till few months to major tournaments before we start preparations. A detailed and unbiased technical report will put the NFF in a good stead to improve on the fortunes of the game in the country,” Ejidike stressed. The FIFA World Cup, in the words of Ejidike, is not a jamboree where many fans who have nothing to contribute to the performance of the team will hang on government to be part of the contingent. He called for a change of heart in this regard and added that if Nigeria could win the U-17 World Cup and make remarkable impact in U-20 World Cup, then nothing should hinder the nation to produce a senior world cup winning squad. Meanwhile, Coach Gernot Rohr has made a passionate appeal to team captain John Mikel Obi not to end his international career just yet but to help the team reach the next AFCON in 2019 which is now the target after the elimination from the 2018 FIFA World Cup. Mikel had said he was considering retiring from the team after 12 years although he’s not reached a definite conclusion over the issue. Rohr claims the influence of the player on his teammates is one of the reasons why he’s enjoyed working with the Super Eagles in his two years in charge. “This group of players is disciplined! We never have any problems and I have our captain to thank for that. He has made it easy for me to coach this team and I hope he stays on with us into the AFCON,” the German said in a press conference in St. Petersburg, Russia, moments after the Super Eagles were eliminated from the World Cup. Rohr also said with the team’s ouster, the next target will be the 2019 African Nations Cup qualifiers which resumes in September. He said: “We have the AFCON to start preparing for and I hope that we’ll do very well in this competition. Nigeria must not only qualify, we must also do very well in Cameroon.” Nigeria have missed the last two editions of AFCON having failed to qualify since winning the 2013 edition in South
Africa. The Super Eagles will face Seychelles on September 7 before playing Libya at home on October 10. The return leg is three days later on the 13th. The last game for the year will be away to South Africa on November 6th before the qualifiers go on recess till March 2019. Nigeria are currently third in Group E after a 2-0 home loss to South Africa in their first match in the qualifiers. 