Tattoos, derived from the Tahitian word ‘tatau,’ are temporary or permanent markings on the skin for the purpose of beautification, socio-cultural reason, religion, record keeping as well as for delineation and identification of a particular set of people. Tattoo has over time transcended the socioeconomic, age, gender as well as ethnic divides. It is a practice that has held sway for a while, as tattoos have been found on Egyptian mummies as far back as the 18th century.  In recent times in Nigeria, studies have shown tattoo as gradually gaining ground with some component parts having been shown to contain allergenic metals. Sites for tattoo include arm, face, back, chest, abdomen and shoulders, among others. According to a Dermatologist at the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, Osun State,  Dr. Sebastine Oiwoh, tattoo has become a common trend across the world. Oiwoh, however, described tattoo as a “manifestation of deliberate self-harm.” “The reasons for tattoo vary in different parts of the world’s population. It is used to accentuate beauty, being a temporary (black henna) or permanent adornment. It has also been used to accentuate aggression or ugliness in order to make the wearer more intimidating. Tattoos have also been used for record keeping (time of birth, family name etc). Culturally, it has been used as part of the rites of passage, fertility and marriage rites. It is nowadays seen by many as an acceptable fashion accessory. Tattoos may also be a manifestation of deliberate self-harm. Tattoos can result from abrasion and injuries from close exposure to black gunpowder, as used in replica ﬁrearms. Tattooing can occur from contact with jewelry (e.g. earrings),” he said. He added that the process involves the use of sharp objects that penetrate through the skin severely. “The professional and licensed tattooist use an electric needle to introduce particles of pigment into the dermis through a group of oscillating needles, injecting ink into the skin 80 to 150 times a second. It can also be by pricking particles of soot, Indian ink and ash into skin with any pointed object or through a cut on skin. The pigments commonly employed include blue-black, red, light blue, green, yellow, and brown iron oxides,” the dermatologist said. But he expressed concern that these sharp objects were no longer sterilised as they
should. “Ideally, a properly equipped tattoo studio will have a sharp container for used needles and an autoclave for sterilising equipment, but this is hardly available in other settings,” he said. According to him, anyone who has just drawn a tattoo has a potential infection risk and so, they are prevented from donating blood for
12 months. “The potential infection risk has led to the prohibition of blood donation for 12 months after receiving a tattoo,” Oiwho said. Complications of tattoos Commenting further, the dermatologist said, “Complications of tattoos vary from immediately after the
procedure to long term complications. Immediately after tattooing, there is a local traumatic response with pain, some swellings with possible formation of a scab (dried blood on the skin).
Infections could be found after the procedure like pyogenic infection, skin infection, Hepatitis, HIV, molluscum contagiosum, syphilis and viral warts, among
others. “Non-infectious skin diseases are potential complications. The skin can also react to the component of ink, especially red pigment cinnabar (mercuric sulphide), cobalt, chrome, manganese and aluminium (purple). Treatment According to the dermatologist, the treatment may involve a long process like skin grafting, which involves transplant of skin tissues. Hepatitis: Do proper screening, know your status, health experts tell Nigerians. 