…opts to contest as senator The Kaduna State Deputy Governor, Barnabas Yusuf Bala Bantex, has explained why he will not run again in 2019 as Governor Nasir el-Rufai’s running mate. Bantex gave his explanations in Kaduna in a speech titled, “Southern Politics is Bridge-Building, not a Pity Party,” at a function of the All Progressives Congress, during the weekend. He said he would now prefer to represent Kaduna South Senatorial District in 2019, as a senator. The seat is currently being occupied by Senator Danjuma Laah, who is at loggerheads with el-Rufai. Bantex said, “With utmost confidence in…the work being done by the APC government of Kaduna State, under the leadership of Malam Nasir el-Rufai, I have decided to offer myself as the APC candidate for the Kaduna South Senatorial District in the forthcoming 2019 election. “I will continue to serve as Deputy Governor of Kaduna State while pursuing this aspiration. As Deputy Governor, I have had several opportunities to witness this commitment to equity, and I regret that some of the elected representation from my zone has not matched this broad-mindedness and constructive approach, in the interest of our people in Zone 3. “I have, therefore, come to the conclusion that it is worth leaving the office of  Deputy Governor to put these issues on the ballot, to encourage more mature and sober political discourse in the area, in order to deliver the desirable quality of representation for our people, and attract the maximum dividend of democracy. “This has been a very difficult decision for me in view of the uncommon goodwill and brotherly relationship that I currently enjoy with Malam Nasir el-Rufai who has elevated the relationship between Governor and Deputy Governor to a level of mutual respect, engagement and involvement that is unparalleled in our
democracy. “I have had the great pleasure to work with a team that has achieved a lot in human capital development, making health and education more accessible to ordinary people, building infrastructure and vigorously promoting equality of opportunity.” Bantex said the government had been able to resist blackmail by those seeking political patronage and forces accustomed to benefitting from deliberate stoking of ethno-religious fires, to achieve electronic voting, implementing TSA, remaking public service, recruiting qualified teachers, equipping primary health centres, building township roads and creating jobs in the public and private sectors. He also said, “It is my firm intention to run on the record of the el-Rufai government in promoting development across the state. I am fully prepared to challenge anyone that represents the failures of the past in delivering the best for our people. I am convinced that it is time for our people to firmly reject the poorest senatorial representation Zone 3 has had since 1999. “By God’s grace, and with the support of the people, I have been privileged to serve as a Member of the House of Representatives on the platform of the Action Congress. I understood that such an office imposed on me a duty of responsible representation, and this obligation led me to seek and maintain good relations with the State Governor at the time, Namadi Sambo, despite his being of the
PDP.” 