A housewife, Nofisat Sodeinde, has told an Agbeloba, Abeokuta, Ogun State Customary Court that she quarreled with her husband, Oluseye Sodeinde, frequently due to his usual failure to provide her feeding allowance. Nofisat in her defence in a suit filed by her husband asking the court for the dissolution  of their two and a half-year-old marriage, said she was not ready to divorce her husband because he was “good in bed,” but only usually defaulted in giving her money for feeding. The 41-year-old housewife argued that she was not interested in the divorce suit brought against her by her husband because he was “patient, caring, and very good in bed.” Nofisat, however, told the court that she could not tolerate her husband’s attitude of not wanting to give her feeding allowance on time before going to work everyday. She said, “I don’t want to divorce my husband because he is caring, patient and good in bed, but he should not try to shirk in his responsibility by not giving me my feeding allowance on time before he goes out to work. “I know I am stubborn, but I am fighting for my right from my husband to give me my feeding money. If he doesn’t give me money, does he want me to go and sleep with other men to feed and take care of myself? “ But her husband prayed the court to dissolve their marriage, which he said had produced no child, expressing fear that his wife might kill him one day, if the court refused to end their union. Oluseye accused Nofisat, who is his second wife, of being too temperamental and troublesome. He also accused his wife of lack of love, fomenting trouble, constant fighting, not giving him rest of mind, threat to his life and being disrespectful, among others. Oluseye further told the court, “She has been begging me before we came to the court to change my mind, but I want to divorce her and let her go. She is fond of constant fighting, fomenting trouble, giving me no rest of mind and threatening my life and being disrespectful to me.” In his ruling, the President of the court, Chief J. A. O Sofolahan, upheld Nofisat’s appeal against the divorce, but warned her to change for the better. He, therefore, adjourned the case to July 18, 2018. 