 …accuses politicians of blackmailing him with killings by herdsmen President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday attacked Governor Ayo Fayose, describing his Stomach Infrastructure policy as deceitful. Buhari spoke in Ado-Ekiti during the grand finale of rally held by the All Progressives Congress for the party’s governorship candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi. The President, who was at the rally with no fewer than 10 governors from the APC-controlled states, also accused the opposition of taking advantage of the farmers- herdsmen’s clashes to blackmail him. The President said despite the fact that Ekiti belongs to the opposition party, his government had not denied the state of any Federal benefit since he came into office in 2015. He added that his government had been working assiduously to stop the rampaging herdsmen, adding that nothing would be spared to achieve the onerous task of uniting Nigeria and making the citizens safe. Buhari said, “I want you to align Ekiti with the Change Agenda of our government. Since I came on board, I have initiated 13 federal road projects in Ekiti. We have completed the failed portions of the Ifaki-Ikole–Omuo Road, Ifaki-Ido Road, Efon-Iwaraja Road, while Ado-Ifaki road has been re-awarded. The APC government had also awarded the construction of a Federal Secretariat in Ekiti State. We have also extended the National Housing Scheme to Ekiti for the state not to be neglected in the scheme of things. “Under my government, Ekiti has enjoyed unprecedented federal appointments while people have also benefited from N-Power and intervention funds like bailouts funds despite belonging to opposition. So, don’t allow yourselves to be insulted by stomach infrastructure, vote APC on Saturday so that you can grow your own better infrastructures. “Ekiti people must do the right thing by voting rightly, so that you can reclaim your land and restore you values. I hereby present to you Dr. Fayemi, a former Minister of Mines and Steel Development. As A Minister, Dr.  Fayemi recorded a lot of laudable achievements. So, don’t waste your votes, vote APC, vote Fayemi.” On the killings across the country, which have been traced to herdsmen, Buhari said, “Some are displaying mischievous attitudes by linking me to killer herdsmen just because I am a Fulani man. This is a cheap blackmail that was far from the truth.” The APC National leader, Tinubu, who also spoke at the rally, said the massive looting of the treasury brought about the recession that hit the economy under Buhari. He urged the people not to be intimidated by the PDP, saying they should come out on the day of election and vote for APC. Tinubu said, “A vote for Fayemi, is a vote for development and the future of Ekiti. He served as a Minister and President didn’t remove him. He was not sacked, but he only came to Ekiti to help you. “On Saturday, you are protected. Don’t be intimidated by anybody, this is not like 2014. This time, it is going to be one man, one vote, because Governor Fayose has been making noise that the election has been rigged. APC is a decent party, it won’t rig election they way they did.” APC National Chairman, Com. Adams Oshiomhole, urged the Ekiti electorate to vote Fayemi to bail the state out of poverty being experienced under Governor Ayodele Fayose’s government. Oshiomhole added that it was disheartening for Governor Fayose to have allegedly pauperized the people, urging the electorate to appropriate their votes wisely for them to get rid of an “irresponsible government.” He said, “Fayemi has promised that he will pay the arrears of salaries if elected.  He won’t sack anybody, because he is different from Fayose who got N20 billion bailout and pocketed it, rather than paying salaries. “Fayose, today has offended everybody, He has abused everybody. He even gave unlawful orders that shops should be closed down today just to show his hatred for President Buhari. He even manipulated the leaders of commercial drivers not to go to work today just to create obstacles. “But I want to commend you for defying all these obstacles. Let me also say that any worker or Vice Chancellor or Provost that was victimized by Fayose will be promoted by Fayemi.” He said the PDP had entered into merger deal with other ‘mushroom’ parties to unseat Buhari, saying their gang up against the present government shall go to nullity. Speaking in turns, Governors Bagudu, Aregbesola, Amosun, Yari, Ajimobi, Bello and Akeredolu, urged the people to vote APC and join the progressive fold to escape the vicious cycle of poverty. Speaking on behalf of the ministers, Ngige said the anti-people policies initiated by Fayose leading to non- payment of salaries had been affecting Igbo traders adversely. He urged Igbo traders in the state to put their destinies in their own hands by rejecting PDP in the poll. Fayemi, in his brief comment, said candidates of 15 political parties had endorsed him for the Saturday’s contest based on his track records. He said, “Saturday’s election will be credible, it will be fair, transparent and credible. Nobody will rig because we are contesting based on our track records, which the people said were excellent. “My concern in this election is to chase away looters and those pauperizing our people. President Buhari has instructed me to go back and bring transformation back to Ekiti and the task shall be achieved.” The Senator representing Ekiti Central, Mrs Fatima Raji Rasaki, a serving member of the House of Representatives, Hon Olamide Oni and other PDP bigwigs also defected to the ruling APC at the rally. 