An angry passenger has allegedly pushed a commercial motorcycle rider, popularly called okada, into a cauldron of cooking oil during a scuffle over N300 transport fare in the Orile area of Lagos State, resulting in the rider sustaining first degree burns. The motorcycle rider was said to have accused the passenger of not paying him the transport fare they had earlier agreed upon, while the passenger insisted that he had paid him the N300 fare before they embarked on the journey from Suru-Alaba to the Sari-Iganmu area of Orile. Their quarrel soon degenerated into a fight, and in the process, the passenger pushed the rider into a large metal pot placed on an open fire and filled with boiling cooking oil being used for baking local bean cake, popularly called ‘Akara,’ by a woman. An eyewitness, Bolanle Oladeinde, explained how the fight between the passenger and the okada rider began. She said, "The okada rider had carried the passenger from Suru-Alaba to Sari-Iganmu. The fight was because of N300 transport fare. The okada rider was accusing his passenger of not paying him his transport fare, while the latter insisted that he had paid, before they started fighting. The okada rider was the first to hit the passenger across the face. He lifted the passenger and threw him on the
ground. “Meanwhile, the woman who was frying 'Akara' by the roadside was shouting to warn them not to fall inside the frying pot of hot oil. When the passenger managed to get up, he pushed the rider and he landed inside the frying oil pot. The passenger ran and picked a bottle, which he broke to scare people who wanted to apprehend him, to enable him to escape from the scene. He escaped to an unknown destination. Many okada riders, who wanted to chase the fleeing passenger with their motorcycle could not do so because he scaled the high drainage system and a fence in the area to escape." Another eyewitness, Okwudili Arinze, who claimed to know the motorcycle rider, said he sustained first degree burns as a result of the incident. Arinze said, "The name of the motorcycle rider is Danladi. He used to sell cigarette and other things in Ajegunle area before he began to ride okada. After the passenger escaped, his friends and brothers had to rush him to a General Hospital for treatment. The incident occurred around 9pm. “The akara seller was crying. She warned them when they began to fight, but they wouldn't listen. Danladi’s hand, stomach and bottom were badly scalded by the hot akara oil. He should have allowed the man to go with the money. Now, he fought the man, but he is the one now nursing serious injuries. He cannot work until the injuries are healed." 