As the Nigeria’s general election draws near, there are several opportunities of making money, as politicians will ‘typically’ be ‘circulating’ money in order to woo their prospective voters. You don’t need to be a politician or a hired thug to make money from the Nigerian political system; you don’t also need to risk your life fighting, carrying arms or snatching ballot boxes. There are so many genuine business opportunities, and some cool ways to make money from the upcoming elections.  If you can position yourself well, you will make a lot of money; regardless of your political party. In fact, you don’t need to partake actively in politics to provide support services and make your money. It is surprising to see people gather at newspaper stands daily, arguing and discussing the political situations in the country. This act is more profound in developing countries like Nigeria. Whenever elections are around the corner, there is a lot of noise; there are speculations, and media rants. A lot of money is thrown around by those vying for various public offices. Whether you’re an enthusiast of politics or not, you can tap from the money that goes around during election campaigns. These are some tips on how to make money from the forthcoming elections: CUSTOMISED T-SHIRTS T-shirts are commonly used for publicity during election campaigns. Aspirants for public offices have their pictures and names boldly printed on customised T-shirts and then distribute them to people, free of charge. This is with the aim of drawing attention, since people tend to read whatever they notice on T-shirts. If you are willing to make money during the next political election campaigns in Nigeria, then you should consider venturing into a customised T-shirt design
business. THE SOCIAL MEDIA Social media is one of the most powerful tools available today for promoting causes and reaching out to a large audience. And this explains why political office aspirants try to exploit social media during election campaigns. If you have a social media profile with a huge followership, or you are a highly skilled social media marketer, then you can make money by helping aspirants spread the words of their ambition. CAMPAIGN RALLY PARTICIPATION If you have a lot of free time on your hands and enjoy going places, then you can make money off public office aspirants during their campaigns. You can do this by joining their campaign team and following them to every place they visit while trying to communicate their ambitions to the
people. In their bid to create the impression that they have garnered huge support, aspirants usually go the extra mile of hiring campaign rally participants who follow them everywhere. These participants are usually paid decently. But be careful to stay out of
trouble. GRAPHICS DESIGN During election campaigns, virtually all of the publicity done by aspiring public office holders is based on graphics, which means there are usually huge opportunities for creative graphic designers to make more money. If you have strong design skills, then you can also tap from the money thrown around during the period by starting a graphic design business. BILL POSTING SERVICE One of the strongest indicators that elections are fast approaching is the display of election campaign bills in most public places. Of course, you know aspirants do not post these bills themselves. Most of the time, they pay people to help them with that. If you are comfortable with this idea, you can make a lot of money from it. SELL SNACKS Another great way to make money during election campaigns is to sell snacks and drinks at political campaign rallies. Thousands to millions of people usually grace these rallies, so you will have a large pool of potential customers, who will need to refresh themselves at intervals. However, you must bear in mind that you will need a vehicle to transport your snacks and mobile stand. TRANSPORT SERVICES If you have a bus or other big vehicle that can convey a decent number of people, then consider approaching an election candidate. This is because aspirants for political offices travel a lot during election campaigns in a bid to spread word of their ambitions and manifestos as widely as possible. And transport is certainly one of the factors that can help their cause. So, yours could be one of the vehicles that will help them convey their supporters to rallies and campaign
grounds. RADIO OR TV SHOW If you think you can perfectly present radio or TV shows, then you should consider starting a show when the elections are drawing near. The show will feature aspirants for political offices and give them the chance to communicate their ambitions and manifestos to viewers and listeners. Of course, aspirants will pay to get featured on your show because they want to take advantage of every available publicity. 