As the 2019 general elections approach, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress in Okun Owa, Odogbolu Local Government Area of Ogun State, Hon. Ola Olufunmilayo, has declared his intention to represent the people of the local government in the state House of Assembly from next year. Olufunmilayo, who is from Ward 3 in Okun Owa, said he was prepared to contest for a seat in the state House of Assembly in next year’s polls to enable him to be in a position to give the good people of his constituency adequate representation and to harness for them the dividends of democracy. The aspirant made the declaration in his constituency at the local government secretariat of the party. In his keynote address on the occasion, Olufunmilayo promised to propose bills that will address unemployment, take care of youth empowerment and constituency development with a view to moving Odogbolu Local Government constituency forward and also putting the area firmly on the path to greatness, if elected. The aspirant, therefore, enjoined the party executives in his local government, the ward party chairmen and APC loyalists in the area to join hands with him and give him the required support to enable him to emerge as the party’s flagbearer for the assembly seat. He assured that his manifesto would bring immense benefits to all the people in his constituency. Olufunmilayo said, “I have a burning desire to inspire our generation to take up the responsibility to make things work, rather than hope someone else does. That’s why I decided to run for the office in the forthcoming elections in 2019. “I’m a responsible young man and a sure hope for my generation. l intend to voice the yearnings of our people, as well as represent your interest with empathy and integrity. “I believe that things can work better than it is now. I am an optimistic individual; I believe in the power of development and engagement of the youths and such, I desire to lead the change and I know that with all hands on deck, a better society will emerge. I am an optimistic individual; I believe in the power of development and engagement of the youth.” In his address on the occasion, the party chairman in the local government, Chief Ganiyu  Odunlami, said he was very happy to receive the aspirant and his supporters. Odunlami commended Olufunmilayo for the courage exhibited in declaring his intention to contest for the Assembly seat during his tenure as the local government chairmen, saying that his action was a clear evidence of the love he had for his people and
community. The House of Assembly aspirant also later visited APC leaders in Odogbolu, including Otunba Babatunde Onakoya ( Debasco), Chief (Mrs.) Bukola Onabanjo, Chief   Yomi Siwoniku, Evangelist Ayodele Adepitan, and a host of other party chieftains. Onabanjo advised the aspirant’s supporters to ensure they collected their Permanent Voter Cards in order to give their votes to Olufunmilayo and their other preferred candidates at the polls. Onakoya (Debasco), on his own part, said all the aspirants should work hard because the APC leaders in Ogun East would not back any unpopular candidate. The APC chieftain, who is also its chairman in charge of mobilisation, added that quality representation would be upheld by the party, which he said still needed to welcome more supporters. Different gifts, including foodstuffs such as rice, semovita and juice as well other materials like shirts and school sandals were distributed to about 800 party supporters during Olufunmilayo’s declaration of intention to run for the Assembly seat in Atiba, the country home of
Debasco. 