Action will continue in the ongoing Lagos Men’s Rugby League at the Main Bowl of the National Stadium, Lagos after a month’s break. The Point gathered that in the Division 2 opener, Lagos Rugby Club defeated Kings College Old Boys 10-0. Fullback Taiwo Salu put up a stellar performance scoring all ten points for Lagos RFC having kicked a 25-meter penalty to put Lagos RFC ahead 3-0 in the twelfth minute before grounding a fantastic overhead kick by flyhalf, Mohammed Salisu and ensuring the conversion was good. Eco 2 Rugby RFC walked over Dynamite Rugby RFC of Ilorin in the second match. Scrumhalf, Abiodun Oladele crossed over the whitewash in the seventh minute to put Racing ahead in a fierce battle with Lagos Police, but conversion was missed by Monday Alex. Police Scrumhalf, Sulyman Oyebola responded by kicking over two penalties to put his team in the lead 6-5. It wasn’t long before Oladele scored another well worked try, converted by Monday Alex before half time. Police winger, Malik Salihu broke the Racing defence and raced 40 meters to score under the post converted by Sulyman as Police led the game 13-12 with ten minutes remaining on the
clock. Racing surged forward in search of points but the Police defence resisted all attempts until Racing RFC fullback, Steven James, kicked over a drop goal at the death to hand Racing RFC the game. 15-13 it ended in favour of Racing RFC. However, Cowrie RFC mauled a hard-fighting Gosar RFC of Ajegunle 17-0 in the last Division 2 match with Tries from big prop, Sunday Bassey; winger, Daniel John and hooker, Sodiq Oduola gave Cowries the points with the first try converted by full back, Azeez Ladipo. After three matches so far played in the ongoing Lagos Men’s Rugby League, defending champions, Cowrie Rugby FC still tops Division 1 with 12 points, followed by Racing Rugby FC with 8 points. Police Rugby FC are in 3rd position with 6 points, while Gosar Rugby FC retained the last spot on the log with no point. In Division 2, Eco II Rugby FC are toping with 13 points, closely followed by Lagos Rugby FC with 8 points, Kings Collage Old Boys Rugby FC are in 3rd position with 4 points, while Kwara Dynamite Rugby FC is in 4th position with no point. Next League matches will continue on Sunday, July 15, 2018 at the same
venue. 