Findings by the Ondo State Police Command revealed that two men joined Alao Adeyemi to allegedly kill Khadijat, the daughter of a former deputy governor of the state, Alhaji Lasisi Oluboyo. Adeyemi, Khadijat’s boyfriend, was arrested by the police on Sunday following the discovery of the remains of the deputy governor’s daughter in a shallow grave in his room. The police on Wednesday said two other persons that were yet to be identified were also involved in the death of the 400-level student of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba, Akoko. Parading Adeyemi at the headquarters of the state police command in Akure, the state capital, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Femi Joseph, said the two accomplices fled after the dastardly act. Joseph said, “The command received an information that Adeyemi, 27, who was Khadijat’s boyfriend, had allegedly killed her and was about to dispose of her corpse. “The police immediately swooped on him and on close observation of his residence, it was discovered that the suspect had actually buried the girl, who had been missing for six days. “He was  actually planning to exhume the remains and finally dispose them of because, according to him, he was not comfortable with the stench coming from the decomposed body as it was not properly buried.” The PPRO said the suspect would soon be charged to court, while effort was ongoing to arrest the accomplices. Adeyemi, who confessed to being a yahoo-yahoo boy (Internet fraudster), said he was not directly involved in the killing of Khadijat. He explained that it was the two accomplices that killed and buried her, adding that the two fleeing suspects were brought to his house by the deceased. He said, “I only provided the digger that was used to dig the grave inside my room where the deceased was buried. But Khadijat was not killed for ritual purpose.” Meanwhile, the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, has commiserated with the family of Oluboyo over the murder of Khadijat. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Segun Ajiboye, the governor urged the police to carry out a thorough investigation and ensure that justice was served in the matter. Akeredolu also advised youths, especially students, to face their studies and shun acts that were capable of jeopardising their future. 