Pro-Chancellor of Benue State University, Makurdi, who is also aspiring to contest the senatorial seat of Benue North-East District, Professor Zachariah Gundu, has faulted the refusal of the Independent National Electoral Commission to adopt electronic voting, saying the decision to go manual is recipe for
fraud. Gundu, in an interview with our correspondent in Makurdi, said Nigerians, having experienced a free and fair election in 2015, were now worried that e-voting was about to be thrown overboard to pave the way for manual voting, which is susceptible to massive rigging and all forms of manipulation. “We expected more from the INEC, because after the last general election, there was a debate about electronic voting and we thought that a year was enough for the new INEC chief to have taken steps to make sure that voting is not done manually again in the country. “So when he (INEC chairman) came up with that pronouncement, people were very surprised. However, we also are aware that probably the government of the day do not want to conduct a free and fair election again, that is why they want to go manual. This will help them manipulate more easily because talking about electronic collation, they would easily say that electronic voting is not also electronic collation “So we are surprised, but we know this is Nigeria; it is possible that those who wanted to rig election had reached the President and were able to convince him,” Gundun appraised. He, however, urged voters to be vigilant and monitor their votes as a way of thwarting subterranean moves aimed at perverting their
will. The don promised that if elected, he would strengthen legislation in favour of the effectiveness of the anti-grazing law recently signed into law by Governor Samuel
Ortom. “We made a law in Benue State prohibiting open grazing; that is a good law, quality law. But because the state made this law, it has opened up a stage for all sorts of intimidation on insecurities and then you would find out that the army is involved, the police, and civil defence, etc. “But they are Federal Government agencies and their involvement in this case is against the people; so a good person who is representing his people and has his people in mind should worry about the interface of the national security agencies-the police and the Army-with the communities and how they can regulate that interface for the benefit of the communities. But as it stands now, we do not really know whether the Army or the police is siding those who have invaded Benue State and we are supposed to know, because by this we can regulate the conduct of the Army,” he said. Gundu said he would not make promises to get elected into the Senate as a senator has no power to award projects and execute them but that he is there to make law and advocate on the needs of his constituency and the entire country at large. He said, “If somebody went out to contest for the position of chairman or governor, he can begin to tell you what he can do in the executive position. But if somebody came out to be a legislator like I am aspiring to be one, I think the best way to engage him should be how well he can represent the people.” He also said he was not intimidated by the personality of the current occupier of the senate seat, Senator Banabas Gemade, saying “I want the people to assess me based on my competence and track record.” 