The Ekiti State Government has said that its plan to recruit 2000 civil servants is not to score any political point. The state government has, therefore, decried the criticisms now trailing the recruitment programme. The state Commissioner for Information, Youths and Sports Development, Hon. Lanre Ogunsuyi, and the Publicity Secretary of the ruling People’s Democratic Party in the state, Jackson Adebayo, said that the state government decided to embark on the recruitment exercise at this point in time because it had been recovering from the financial crisis it had been facing over the years. The Labour Party governorship candidate in Ekiti State, Dr. Sikiru Lawal, had recently questioned the planned recruitment of 2000 civil servants by the state government, describing it as insincere and deceitful. According to the state commissioner for Information, Youths and Sports Development, those misconstruing the development as a political propaganda are against the good of the unemployed citizens of the state. He argued that the planned recruitment would take many unemployed citizens of the state out of their current hardship. Ogunsuyi said, “For those seeing this as a political propaganda, I say good news is good news, whether midnight or in the morning. We have been battling with financial crisis; obviously, it is getting better because we have reduced the debt and we have also started seeing the result of the compartmentalization and money saving measures that we introduced three years ago. “We are doing it now so that people can enjoy this new development.  As we are doing it now, we believe we are bringing goodwill to the people. We wish we could do more but we are looking at the financial implication. There is not a single soul that does not wish that the unemployed people should be employed. Unemployment is a social
stress. “What we are doing can be likened to a kind of mop-up. We have space for qualification and what we are going to do is to put these qualifications into the vacant positions. We have several vacancies in Ekiti State, but we want to look at the critical areas. We want to attend to the unemployed. We have where we are going to put them and at the level of the interview, they will be invited for specific areas.” Speaking in the same vein, the state PDP Publicity Secretary, Jackson, said Ekiti was not known for miscreants, except during the last tenure of the current All Progressives Congress governorship candidate of the state, Dr. Kayode
Fayemi. “Ekiti State Government has never been known to be a scammer in terms of employment. The only time such a thing happened was during the past Dr. Kayode Fayemi’s regime. They wrote examinations and eventually they were not recruited. They all paid two thousand Naira, some paid 500 Naira,” he said. The Ekiti PDP spokesman stated that the state government had been magnanimous and kind by giving the recruitment form free of charge to all
applicants. The party spokesman said, “At present, the forms are being sent out by the government free of charge. The government has said it will only employ 2,000 persons. People have started collecting the forms in their various local government and when the time comes, we will make the selection without being biased or influenced by anybody. “Every information we need is stated in the form and those condemning this development will be regarded as the enemies of the
state.” 