…reassures Nigerian fans on better future outings Leicester City striker Ahmed Musa has broken his silence over Nigeria’s painful elimination from the 2018 World Cup and confessed that the Super Eagles fought hard against Argentina before the unexpected happened; but assured soccer fans that the team will make the nation proud in future. Including injury time, the Super Eagles had only eight minutes to see out a 1-1 draw with Argentina but conceded in the 86th minute when Manchester United’s Marcos Rojo volleyed home the winner. Musa started his second match of the tournament against the two-time world champions and made way for Simeon Tochukwu Nwankwo in the second minute of injury time, four days after he notched a second-half brace vs Iceland. Writing on Instagram, Musa stated : ”Thank you for all your support throughout this journey. I thank God for this opportunity to represent my country in the World Cup and compete with the best in the world. ”Although we were not victorious we fought hard until the very end. As you all are, we are also disappointed and will use this as motivation to come back stronger. ”We are Naija and I hope we can continue to make you all proud,” he said. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Football Federation have revealed that the staff at the Essentuki Team Base Camp offered Gernot Rohr a cake and bouquet of flowers to celebrate his 65th birthday and hoped the coach will steer Eagles to success ahead of AFCON 2019 qualifiers commencing soon. Meanwhile, Nigeria’s leading energy solution company, AITEO Group, has lauded the Senior National Football Team, Super Eagles, for their output at the FIFA World Cup finals in Russia, insisting that the three –time African champions were not disgraced. “AITEO Group wishes to commend players and officials of the Super Eagles for the efforts they put into their campaign at the FIFA World Cup finals in Russia, despite failure to progress to the knockout rounds of the competition. We note that the players put in their utmost with patriotic fervour and zeal, and were so, so close to getting the needed draw against two –time world champions Argentina. “We have only praises for the Board of Nigeria Football Federation led by Mr. Amaju Pinnick which provided everything the team needed to succeed, in the critical areas of funding, high level and adequate preparations, provisions for team all-round improvement through modern technological equipment, hiring of additional quality technical staff and payment of the team’s World Cup bonus long before they kicked a ball in Russia,” read the
statement. The company, which is the Official Premium Partner of the NFF, went ahead to pledge its continued commitment to all its agreements with the Football Federation towards the development of Nigerian Football. 