A presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki, SAN, has said President Muhammadu Buhari and his party, the All Progressives Congress, told Nigerians five lies to get their votes in the 2015 general elections. Turaki said that Buhari and the APC hoodwinked Nigerians into voting them into office in the 2015 polls with unrealistic promises of a better life for all citizens. He said that almost three years into the tenure of Buhari and the ruling APC, Nigerians had become disenchanted and disillusioned as the government had failed to fulfil any of the five promises they made during the campaigns for the 2015 polls. The PDP presidential aspirant spoke in Minna during an interactive session with members of the Niger State chapter of his party. He argued that since Buhari and the ruling APC deceived Nigerians in 2015, Nigerians could no longer trust them. “Buhari lied to Nigerians that if they voted for him, one naira would exchange for one dollar; he would revive our hospitals, but he goes to London to treat ear, nose and eye diseases. He said he would reduce petroleum pump price, but what did we see? He increased it. He would stop Boko Haram and would give security top priority, but, daily, people are being killed in over 20 states of the country,” Turaki said. He, however, stressed that his party, the opposition PDP and its members, were ready to lay down their lives to save Nigeria from imminent collapse, insisting that Nigeria as a country was no longer working. He said Nigeria had never been so disunited, warning that if no urgent steps were taken to check the trend, there would be no Nigeria after President Buhari. He said, “Our chances are very limited and not very clear. But it is left for us to take our chances to save our country. Because of discrimination, what do we see today, the South South saying they don’t want to be part of Nigeria and the South West is saying if, the South South is leaving, we also want to go and why won’t they say so, when the President told the region (South South) that ‘you did not vote for me, you only gave me 10
percent votes?” Earlier, the Kebbi State Chairman of the PDP, Alh. Shuiabu Bawa, expressed fears over the continued corporate existence of Nigeria in the face of the multifarious challenges confronting the nation. “Nigeria is facing many problems and if nothing is done, tomorrow, the nation may not be one and may even scatter and that will not only affect us as a people but other countries as well,” he said. Bawa argued that the 2019 elections would give Nigerians the opportunity to vote out the APC administration. Speaking on the qualities of the presidential aspirant, the leader of the Turaki Campaign Organisation, Mr. Boni Haruna, who is a former governor of Adamawa State, said members of the team accepted to work for the actualisation of his aspiration because, “he is sellable and has the capacity to lead the nation.” “Honestly, if he (Turaki) were a weakling, I won’t have been on his campaign team. But because he has the capacity, if voted, he will be a bridge between the old and the
young.” 