Experts in the medical sector have warned parents to protect their children against diarrhea and pneumonia, particularly during this rainy season, to check the incidence of infant mortality in the country. The health experts stated that the above named ailments were the most common during this period and proper caution must be taken by parents to prevent their
occurrence. They also warned that parents could not afford to risk any form of negligence during this season. A Toxicological Biochemist at the Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Abia State, Prof. Ifeoma Irene, said that the warning became necessary because of the intensity of the rains between June and August, resulting in the high incidence of health complications, which mostly affect vulnerable children. Ifeoma charged parents to be extra-careful and give more attention to how they dress up their children throughout the season to avoid exposing them to these diseases while in schools and other places. She said, “Parents should pay closer attention to hygiene, especially those ones that have toddlers. They have the chances of picking things, because the vulnerability of Diarrhea is high. In this season, there are cases where children can just slip off around the house. The homes should be properly cleaned so they do not slip and fall. “Pneumonia and Diarrhea is higher now, Diarrhea mostly, because they may play with wet soil, pick worms and all that and Pneumonia is the exposure to cold. Kids should not play outdoors without proper clothing. Parents should take note.” A medical doctor, Dr. Akintola Osuntusa of the Excel Clinics in Ogun State, said that children should not be exposed during this unfriendly weather. Osuntusa stressed that parents should always check their children’s health status with a view to seeking immediate solutions and treatment. He said, “If anyone has catarrh or sore throat, they should be treated properly so that it will not become complicated. When these complications come in, pneumonia can have its way. “Parents should not expose their children; exposure of the chest can cause Pneumonia. Children that are crawling should not be allowed outside on the wet floor. When they touch wet substance the rain has dispersed, they can be infected with Diarrhea.  Parents should keep their children warm always.” The experts also advised people living in areas surrounded by dirty water and poor drainage to take measures to ensure a clean
environment. They noted that dirty storm water and poor drainages were havens for insects such as mosquitoes, cockroaches, houseflies and rodents, among others. The medical experts also urged parents to take measures to check the negative effects of the rainy
season. 