Evidently, political parties have begun covert campaigns for the 2019 elections. As in the past, cracks are also beginning to appear in a few of the political parties’ walls, resulting in threats by leaders of aggrieved groups to leave their parties and merge with others. There is no doubting the fact that there will be alignments and realignments of forces in all the political parties, especially between now and the elections in 2019. It happened in the First Republic, in the Second Republic and it has happened once in the current Fourth Republic. Some political juggernauts will leave their political parties with their followers and join other parties. Such strategic movements are normal developments in party politics. Therefore, such developments must neither be allowed to degenerate into unnecessary rancour nor be allowed to sow seeds of discord among the parties, much less the Nigerian populace.   Even in the advanced world, such political shifts are not out of place.  Only recently, a major ally of the ruling party in Germany, which was opposed to the influx of migrants into Germany, threatened to pull out of government. The German Chancellor, who had been sympathetic to migrants, had to backpedal so as not to rock the boat. Across the world, a lot of inter-group bargains take place within political parties, to keep most of them together as virile and as cohesive as they could be. Nigeria’s political party leaders must, therefore, learn to listen to opinion leaders of the power blocks within their parties. This is because attempts to ramrod unpopular opinions, using the ‘party supremacy fad’ without adequate consultation with leaders of power blocks in the political party, may lead to a breakup of such a party. We recall that in 2015, insensitivity on the part of the Peoples Democratic Party to the views and complaints of some opinion leaders and leaders of power blocks within the political party led to the breakaway of some splinter groups in the party, who, en masse, joined the All Progressives Congress to defeat the PDP.  We note that similar rancour is now being brewed within the APC too and it is threatening to tear the party apart. The way and manner the leaders of the APC handle the intricate issues and complaints of the aggrieved groups will decide the fortunes of the party in the coming elections. Lack of internal democracy is a major cause of the schisms and divisions in the political parties, resulting in eventual split among them. This is especially so because many of the party leaders are easily carried away by the perceived status of their high offices and, therefore, find it difficult to listen to dissenting views from opinion leaders and leaders of power blocks, within their political parties. The party leaders are unmindful that they are mere servants of the people and are, as such, required to serve their members, listening to their complaints and reaching out constantly to critical constituents and power blocks in their parties, to decide the way forward, whenever trouble looms. The party leaders, in the Nigerian setting, would rather listen to close aides who feed them with wrong information and who advise them wrongly on what to do. This is disconcerting. Selfishness is another major problem of the political parties. There is the need for political leaders in the country to work for the common good of their parties and for the wellbeing of the people of Nigeria.  A situation where political leaders are not patriotic enough or where they do not seek the interest of the common good of Nigerians is tantamount to selfishness and narrow-mindedness. Also, political parties in Nigeria are too busy trying to capture power rather than win votes at elections. That is why Nigerian political leaders embark on nocturnal meetings to put their political friends and cronies in offices, so that they too can be handsomely rewarded later, either through fat contracts or some financial rewards. Even when they know that the candidate may not be voted in by the electorate, that still does not prevent them from trying it. Such attempts to put unpopular candidates in political offices often lead to resistance by party members in the constituency and possible split of the political party into many factions. As the country prepares for the 2019 elections, politicians must be selfless, patriotic and be willing and ready to serve their constituents and the whole of Nigeria to the best of their abilities. They must eschew the use of political thugs, violent politicking, money politics, slander and other vices. They should also desist from “capturing states rather than winning elections,” for which our political past is known. Nigerians must learn from the experience of the western countries, where issues dominate their politics. Also, against the backdrop of the bitter, acrimonious and venomous disputes that followed most election management in the country in the past, it is imperative that the Independent National Electoral Commission builds high credibility around the election process, for the outcome of the elections to pass the integrity test. Towards this end, the INEC leadership must be above board and be seen to be fair to all the parties and the contestants, brooding no
bias. 