In deference to the decision of the family oracle for allegedly bringing shame and misfortune upon her husband’s family due to her bisexual nature, elders of the family have insisted that a housewife, Madam Ogbechi Maryann Lucy Egwuonwu, must undergo a special spiritual cleansing.
It was gathered that the mother of two, who is of Igbo extraction, had, prior to her marriage, suffered multiple sexual abuses in the hands of friends right from when she was in primary school and through to higher institutions.
According to her family source, her personal disposition towards women saw her being exposed to various abuses. “She had been made to experiment with sex at the age of 12 by her sport coach, who incidentally was a woman. This continued through to her higher educational level before reprieve came her way in 2008, when she got hooked to her husband, who eventually married her in October 2010,” the source said. It was gathered that series of odd things had in the recent past befallen her husband’s country home, which made the elders to consult the oracle, which reportedly told them that an abomination had crept into their family lineage, resulting in the death of their mother-in-law.
Sources claimed that the root cause of the abomination was the fact that Ogbechi Maryann Lucy is a bisexual and that the secret had always been between her and her husband. However, her husband was said to have confided in his cousin, who finally let the cat out of the bag.
“And to forestall more calamities, the woman and her children have to undergo cleansing rituals, since the kids are her direct offspring; after which they shall be circumcised,” a family source said.
Our correspondent gathered that due to the family elders’ insistence that both the woman and her children must under spiritual cleansing, she and her two kids have since disappeared from their residence for over a year now and their whereabouts could not be ascertained by anyone.
However, the spiritual head of the family of the Egwounwus, Mr. Deede Nwokeafor, confirmed the development to our correspondent, saying, “The woman and her children must come out of hiding for them to appease the dieties. We do not want any future retributory occurrence in the family. The husband had agree to pay some penalties, but that is not enough. He must bring his wife and children to the village. I think he is cooperating with the elders, but the cleansing and circumcision must be carried out as tradition demands.” 