National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has claimed that the candidate of the party for the July 14 gubernatorial election, Dr Kayode Fayemi won the 2014 gubernatorial election in the state. The Independent National Electoral Commission had declared the incumbent, Mr Ayo Fayose as the winner of that contest, where he was said to have won in all the sixteen local government areas of the state. Oshiomhole, while addressing a mammoth crowd at the rally organised for Fayemi in Ado-Ekiti, the capital of Ekiti state ahead of this Saturday’s election, said Fayose’s behaviour at the corridor of power portrayed him as a “typical armed robber”. “I know that in 2014, you voted for Fayemi, but the government of those days was not ready to accept one man, one vote”. The APC Chairman lauded Fayemi for what he termed a rare leadership quality and flair for democratic governance, saying he would change the narrative of leadership in the state if elected governor. He accused Fayose of building a circle of poverty as a result of non-payment of workers’ salaries and gratuities to pensioners. “I met Fayemi outside Nigeria, he is my comrade. We were both involved in the struggle for democracy and democratic governance. “I came to Ekiti yesterday, and I met with some civil servants, who complained about nonpayment of salaries, they said the governor have not paid them in the last one year. “It is obvious that the workers of this state have been pauperised, the economy is at its lowest ebb, Fayose has built a circle of poverty; I am not surprised, after all, he came from poverty deepening party. “Fayose is behaving like a typical armed robber that he is, all his tactics are primitive. For instance, how could he shut down the economy by deceiving the leadership of the transport workers to park their vehicles at the government house. “This ‘boy’ is a poor student of struggle,” Oshiomhole said. The former Edo state governor however assured workers in the state of prompt payment of salaries if Fayemi is elected as governor. 