A former deputy governor of Abia State, Chris Akomas, has declared his intention to contest the governorship of the state in 2019, pledging to serve only one term, if elected. Akomas said that within his four-year tenure, he would lay the foundation for the overall development of the state. The former number two citizen of the state under former governor Theodore Orji is a member of the Hon Donatus Nwakpa-led faction of the All Progressives Congress in the state. Akomas spoke to our correspondent shortly after a meeting with members of the state, local government and ward executive committees of the party at his Nenu home, in Obingwa Local Government Area. “I don’t need more than four years in office to set solid foundation for the socio-economic growth, infrastructural and industrial development of the state,” he
said. He described himself as one of the proponents of single term tenure of five years for governors, adding that he believed the period was enough for a focused governor to deliver on his promises. “In Abia, we have growth centers that have remained moribund. I know what to do to ensure its sustainable economic growth and things we can set up within two to three years of being in power,” he noted. Akomas drew attention to how former Anambra State governor, Dr. Chris  Ngige, cleared pension and salary arrears and embarked on massive infrastructural development of the state. According to him, all that is needed is to set the state on sustainable path of progress that his successor would have no other option than to make sure that it continues to
grow. He said he was aware that Abia North Senatorial District aspirants would be uncomfortable with his declaration because he is from the same Abia South Senatorial District with the governor of the
state. Akomas, who noted that as a gentleman he would keep to his words, added that he knew what to do, where to go, and how to attract investors to the state. Earlier, the party chairman, who was represented by his deputy, Chief Adiele Ogunka, had thanked the former deputy governor for making his intention known to the
members. He promised that the party would provide a level playing field for the aspirants during its forthcoming primary election to ensure the emergence of credible candidates. 