Democracy is most famously defined as power by the people, for the people and by the people. However, the way we practise it in Nigeria requires that it be re-defined as power by the buyer for the buyer and by the buyer. The 'buyer' can be anyone at all. There is no criteria beyond the ability, however obtained, and the willingness to pay for votes.  Voters pay little or no attention to the candidate’s platform or proposed policies; those are largely irrelevant. So long as a candidate can pay, he is a 'good' candidate. After securing the desired office, when the elected official faces a new election, it matters what he had achieved but it matters more that he has money to pay for the electorate’s support. No wonder the primary focus of many a politician is how to secure access to money. In our political economy, without that money, an electoral victory is near
impossible. For those that sell their votes, there is immediate gratification. N1,000. N4,000. I've even heard of payments of up to N10,000 per vote. The problem is that if the process leads to a poor candidate getting into elected office or to a good candidate getting in, he is beholden to those that put up the money. Either is unlikely to be in a position to deliver services for the broad generality of people. Money isn't infinite, after all. The same money he could have used to deliver public services has already
been given in advance
to buy votes. So while the voters may get something, the society loses out on having the best people represent them in a way that keeps the thrust of policy and governance on meeting their
needs. Some say our people have been pushed to the wall by poverty; that they do not trust politicians to deliver on their promises because they have been disappointed before; that it is actually intelligent behaviour from the voter to demand an upfront payment since, once in office, they may only ever see the politicians’ tail lights.
The problem is that it is not only the economically poor whose support can be bought. As renowned lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana, pointed out recently, money features prominently in elections for the President of the Nigerian Bar Association. And when it comes to politicians, they are easily as diverse as the Nigerian people they represent. There are credible candidates and there are those that are little more than criminals. If the voter wants someone that will make schools and clinics work, invest in infrastructure and generate decent jobs, such candidates are available. They just don't get much attention unless they pay
up. It could be that people  do not know the power that they have. Or that people are unwilling to go through the long process of making Nigeria's democracy function. Who wants to march for days on end to make a point about good schools? Or about teachers' salaries? Who wants to introduce a petition advocating for a certain change and go from door to door canvassing for people to sign onto it? Who is willing to monitor service delivery over months, maybe years, and put out the information so that the government is pushed to
improve? It is so much more easier to be a consumer and not a producer. To just collect money for fulfilling your civic duty than to vote and then hold your elected officials accountable. But what is easier in the short term mortgages your future. According to the current Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, between 2003 and 2006, N1.34 trillion was stolen from Nigeria by people who were put in positions of power, who then seized the opportunity to fleece the country.
So long as we continue to tolerate this highly dysfunctional system, we will be trapped in a system that fails to deliver healthcare, education, jobs or
roads. It is hard to complain about how a handful of people act like landowners in Nigeria when we sell the country to them. We must get our voters to understand this. When we sell our vote, we sell our
future. 