 …says ‘he knows how to tackle Nigeria’s problems better’  The Director General of the Atiku Presidential Campaign Organisation and former governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, has assured Nigerians that former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, will accomplish the restructuring of the country, if elected President in 2019. Daniel stressed that Abubakar remained the best qualified leader, who could take the country out of the current economic quagmire and other perennial multifarious problems that had been bedeviling the Nigerian nation. The arrowhead of Atiku’s presidential campaign stated this in a statement made available to our correspondent on Tuesday. Acknowledging the challenges ahead, especially regarding efforts to “change this change,” in 2019, Daniel enjoined all Nigerians to come together for the sole purpose of ensuring that the former vice president is elected the president of the country in the 2019 general elections. He added that with the active support of all Nigerians, Atiku would emerge victorious in next year’s presidential poll. He said, “I am truly humbled, encouraged, and ever determined to ensure that with your active support we can achieve our overall objective of facilitating the emergence of His Excellency, Alh Atiku Abubakar, as the next President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, by the grace of God. “I remain persuaded that in him, we have a truly liberal Nigerian with deep knowledge of our country’s ethnic and religious diversities, in him we have somebody with deep appreciation of the intrigues of our current economic quagmire, both from the public and private perspectives and a man with capacity for talent hunt and putting round pegs in round holes. “We have in him, one Leader who have been persuaded long before now on the need to completely restructure our country even when it was not fashionable to take that position.” Daniel also advised Nigerians to discountenance the antics of propagandists and focus positively on voting in the former vice president as the country’s president in 2019. He added, “I am not unaware of the tough challenges ahead and the extreme hard work required to effectively change this change. Luckily, we are not averse to hard work and our parents usually tell us that hard work dies not kill but it’s laziness that kills. “I, therefore, enjoin you all to put on your gloves as we enter the ring and your spike shoes as we go into this marathon. Once we remain focused, keeping our eyes firmly on the ball, our ultimate victory is ascertained. From now on, Atiku and Abubakar alone must be our positive focus. “Too many deliberate and vile propaganda are out there deliberately by Propagandists and Seers who have seen the star. Our tool must be, providing correct and accurate information as politely as possible for the truly undiscerning mind who are in the majority while boxing the deliberate mischief makers. Never again must we succumb to vile propaganda in taking our political decisions. Please, come with me on this ride to the Villa. #IstandwithAtiku. The former governor also seized the opportunity to thank all Nigerians, who have been felicitating with him on his appointment as the director general of the Atiku Presidential Campaign Organisation, saying, “As I wish all a happy democracy day, I want to seize this opportunity to thank all our compatriots, friends and well-wishers, who have been congratulating me with words of encouragement on my recent appointment as the Director General of the Atiku Presidential Campaign Organisation,” Daniel said. 