The National Universities Commission, has released the list of all illegal universities operating in Nigeria, with the unapproved institutions amounting to 58. In a Monday bulletin from the office of the NUC Executive Secretary dated May 14, the commission said the universities are yet to be licensed by the federal government and have been shut down for violating the national minimum standard for education. The commission also disclosed that eight universities are currently undergoing investigation for illegally running degree programmes in the country. The illegal universities are listed as follows: 1. University of Accountancy and Management Studies, operating anywhere in Nigeria 2. Christians of Charity American University of Science and Technology, Nkpor, Anambra State or any of its other campuses 3. University of Industry, Yaba, Lagos or any of its other campuses 4. University of Applied Sciences and Management, Port Novo, Republic of Benin or any of its other campuses in Nigeria 5. Blacksmith University, Akwa or any of its other campuses 6. Volta University College, HO, Volta Region, Ghana or any of its other campuses in Nigeria 7. Royal University, Izhia, PO BOX 800, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State or any of its other campuses
8. Atlanta University, Anyigba, Kogi state or any of its other campuses 9. United Christian University, Macotis campus, Imo State or any of its other campuses 10. United Nigeria University College, Okija Anambra State or any of its other campuses. 11. Samuel Ahmadu University, Makurdi, Benue State or any of its other campuses 12. UNESCO University, Ndoni, Rivers State or any of its other campuses 13. Saint Augustine’s University of Technology, Jos, Pleateu State or any of its other campuses 14. The International University, Missouri USA, Kano and Lagos studies centres or any of its other campuses in Nigeria 15. Collumbus University, UK, operating anywhere in Nigeria 16. Tiu International University, UK operating anywhere in Nigeria 17. Pebbles University, UK operating anywhere in Nigeria 18. London External Studies, UK, operating anywhere in Nigeria 19. Pilgrims University operating anywhere in Nigeria 20. Lobi Business School, Makurdi, Benue State or any of its campuses in Nigeria 21. West African Christian University operating anywhere in Nigeria 22. Bolta University College, Aba or any of its campuses in Nigeria 23. JBC Seminary Inc. (Wukari Jubilee University) Kaduna illegal campus 24. Western University, Esie Kwara State or any of its campuses in Nigeria 25. St. Andrews University College, Abuja or any of its other campuses in Nigeria 26. EC-Council USA, Ikeja Lagos Study Centre 27. Atlas University, Ikot Udoso Uko, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State or any of its other campuses in Nigeria 28. Concept College/Universities (London) Ilorin or any of its other campuses in Nigeria 29. Halifax Gateway University, Ikeja or any of its campuses in Nigeria 30. Kingdom of Christ University, Abuja or any of its other campuses in Nigeria 31. Acada University, Akinlalu Oyo state or any of its other campuses in Nigeria 32. Filfom University, Mbaise, Imo State or any of its other campuses in Nigeria 33. Houdegbe North American University campuses in Nigeria 34. Atlantic Intercontinental University, Okija Anambra State 35. Open International University, Akure 36. Middle Belt University (North Central University) Otukpo 37. Lead Way University, Ugheli, Delta State 38. Metro University, Dutse/Bwari Abuja 39. Southend University, Ngwuro Egeru (Afam) Ndoki, Rivers State 40. Olympic University, Nsukka, Enugu State 41. Federal College of Complementary and Alternative Medicine, Abuja 42. Temple University, Abuja 43. Irish University Business School, London, operating anywhere in Nigeria 44. National University of Technology, Lafia, Nasarawa State 45. University of Accountancy and Management Studies, Mowe, Lagos – Ibadan Expressway and its annex at 41, Ikorodu road, Lagos. 46. University of Education, Wenneba Ghana operating anywhere in Nigeria 47. Cape Coast University, Ghana operating in Nigeria 48. African University Cooperative Development (AUCD) Cotonou, Benin Republic operating anywhere in Nigeria 49. Pacific Western University, Denver Colorado, Oweri study centre 50. Evangel University of America and Chudick Management Academic, Lagos 51. Enugu State University of Science and Technology (Gboko campus) 52. Career Light Resources Centre, Jos 53. University of West Africa, Kwali Abuja, FCT 54. Coastal University, Iba Oku, Akwa Ibom State 55. Kaduna Business School, Kaduna 56. Royal University of Theology, Minna, Niger State 57. West African Union University, in collaboration with International Professional College of Administration, Science and Technology, Nigeria operating anywhere in Nigeria 58. Gospel Missionary Foundation , Theological University, 165 Isolo road, Cele bus stop, Egbe Ikotun, Lagos The commission also said eight universities are currently undergoing investigation for illegally running degree programs. The eight universities are: 1) National Universities of Nigeria, Keffi , Nassarawa State. 2) North Central University, Otukpo, Benue state. 3) Christ Alive Christian Seminary and University. 4) Richmond Open University, Arochukwu, Abia state. 5) West Coast University, Umuahia. 6) Saint Clements University, Iyin Ekiti, Ekiti state. 7) Volta University College, Aba, Abia state. 8) Illegal Satellite Campuses of Ambrose Alli University. The publication warned that anybody who patronises or obtains any certificate from any of these illegal institutions does so at his or her own risk. According to the commission, certificates obtained from these sources will not be recognised for the purposes of National Youth Service Corps, employment and further studies. The regulatory body for universities in the country said the relevant law enforcement agencies have been informed for necessary action. 