I don’t know what may presently be on his mind. But what I know is that, much water has passed under the bridge, judging by the flurry of events, with him as the centre of convergence, for a considerable period of time now. Like the classic, Gulliver’s Travel, or the popular Yoruba story, ‘’Ajala travelled all over the world”, dedicated to the acclaimed globe-trotter, Olabisi Ajala, Senator Ali Modu Sheriff has pleased himself, moving from one political party to the other allegedly at the slightest provocation, possibly in pursuit of the golden fleece or to satisfy some ambitions. It could be both, anyway.
Like the “Adventure in Power,” the writing of the great sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, the political life of Senator Sheriff for about two decades or thereabout has been characterised by ups and downs, successes and failures, forward march and backward pedaling, gossips, rumours, malice, character assassination, praises and condemnations, the good, the bad, and the ugly. According to Ivory Jennings, if you want to see or observe the hustle and bustle of the British politics, go to the House of Commons, but mature wisdom is often to be seen in the House of Lords. If you want to see the melodrama and antics of a dramatis personae concerned in this respect, within the past two decades, Sheriff comes with a lorry-load.
From the United Nigeria Congress Party to All Peoples Party, All Nigeria Peoples Party, All Progressives People Congress, to Peoples Democratic Party and now back to APC, Senator Modu Ali Sheriff is a moving locomotive who would brook no opposition to his ambition. In the process, he has stirred the hornet’s nest, thereby provoking the anger of some people, get accolades and support from some, and experience the “siddon look’’ indifference of others. He sets goals for himself and deploys all arsenals at his disposal to accomplishing the same, daring any opposition on his way.
As a politician, two-term governor of Borno State, three-term senator, party chieftain, ex-this, ex-that, Sheriff means different things to different people
While to some he is the father of present-day Borno politics, others tag him an unrestrained politician who is desperate for power. To others as well, he is an opportunist who must be closely watched not to topple the apples’ cart. Others are unequivocal that he is a philanthropist and a good go-getter who, once he puts his hands on the plough, would not look back.   Sheriff had, however, been accused by some of his political opponents as a sponsor of Boko Haram, but he hit back saying all was an attempt to give a dog a bad name with the ultimate aim of hanging it. In short, in Borno politics in particular and Nigeria in general, it will not be out of place to say Senator Sheriff is an issue. You are either for him or against him.
It is noteworthy too that within the last one decade, Sheriff has been engulfed in the vortex of complex Nigerian politics. Some say it is either due to his haughty ambition or his inability to comprehend adequately, the nitty-gritty of the dynamics of Nigerian politics, Sheriff had his fingers burnt on some issues dear to his heart. For example, as a sitting state governor, he lost in a senatorial election. Similarly, his ambition to install his choice of Tom Ikime as APC national chairman and Alhaji Kashim Imam as Secretary General was dashed as both lost out. Thus, in frustration, Sheriff left the APC to pitch his tent with President Goodluck Jonathan’s People Democratic Party where he pledged to unseat the incumbent governor, Kashim Shettima of the APC in the 2015 election and deliver Borno State and National Assembly seats to PDP.
Unfortunately, in the elections, APC swept all the state and national Assemblies seats and also won the governorship election. Sheriff was left in the lurch. The results thus demystified Sheriff’s impregnability. Political supremacy and reckoning of Senator Sheriff further nosedived following the Supreme Court judgment that voided the legitimacy of his disputed national chairmanship in the PDP and threw up his rival, Senator Ahmed Makarfi as chairman.
Since then, the embattled Senator has remained silent, until recently when the news filtered in that Sheriff and his supporters in PDP had concluded arrangement to come back to the APC, following a reconciliation meeting between the senator and his estranged political godson, Governor Kashim Shettima.
Now that the reconciliation of the warring groups of Governor Shettima and Sheriff have resolved to sheathe the sword, let there be peace and not just truce. Borno has suffered enough. The state has witnessed blood, deaths and sorrow. She is still bleeding arising from years of insurgent attacks and must not be allowed to bleed to death.
Senator Sheriff has another opportunity to look at the drawing board and see where things went wrong, to amend. The same applies to Governor Shettima, who in fairness, has shown total loyalty to Senator Sheriff who he described as his benefactor. Sheriff who throughout this period has been more on the firing lane must not only have a rethink but play the true role of an elder statesman. Getting back his due respect and accord which no doubt have been bruised as a result of his perceived rashness, uncompromising stand and dictatorial tendencies, depend, among others, on his ability to swallow his pride for the sake of Borno. Ego does no one any good, but evil. *Izekor, a journalist and public affairs analyst, is Member, Board of Advisers of The Point. 