…urge people to protect themselves as govt shuts three erring firms Medical experts in Rivers State have warned residents to protect themselves against the spreading hydrocarbon elements, popularly called black soot, saying it is capable of causing cancer of the lung and other respiratory problems.
A Specialist and Consultant Surgeon at the Braithwaite Memorial Specialist Hospital, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Dr. Furo Green, told our correspondent that the impact of the black soot could be devastating.
Green warned that the black soot was capable of infecting the over six million residents of the state with cancer.
He said, “Many people are at risk of developing cancer of the lung and other respiratory problems following prolonged exposure to the black soot caused by hydrocarbon. The Federal Government should monitor the activities of multinational companies that are into hydrocarbon processing.
“We all suddenly noticed an increase in discharge of black powdery matter in the environment, which the Ministry of Environment has narrowed to hydrocarbon. The implication of inhaling these hydrocarbon particles is that it can lead to acute inflammation of the airways, which can precipitate hyper stimulation of the airway and actually precipitate asthmatic attack in individuals, who are predisposed to asthma.
“And over a long period of time, it can precipitate chronic obstruction of the airways, which we refer to as chronic bronchitis. So when this condition goes on for a long time, it results in chronic respiratory conditions that can end up as malignancy or even kill the individual.”
Speaking in the same vein, the Deputy Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee, Special Projects and Linkages, University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital, Dr. Ochele Emmanuel, confirmed that the hydrocarbons were capable of causing
cancer.
Emmanuel said that the number of people that would be affected by the development would be more than six million as others in neighbouring states were also experiencing the soot.
He said, “Hydrocarbons, after prolonged exposure, can predispose to cancer, especially of the lung, because that is the area where it is settled. But there are other long lasting conditions that may arise from hydrocarbon poison, such as infertility.
“Fertility is significantly affected by hydrocarbon poisoning. But in children, the effect can be unpredictable. A child that is very normal now, could actually develop an acute respiratory problem; meaning that a child, who has never had asthma, can actually precipitate to one, and if care is not taken the child could die from asphyxia.”
However, the Rivers State Government, according to our findings, had already shut down three companies in the state for allegedly operating machines that were emitting high volume of hydrocarbon into the atmosphere.
They are Chinese-owned company, HSH Engineering Company and AUC Ashphalt Company, for allegedly operating machines that released hydrocarbon into the atmosphere.
The Commissioner for Information and Communications, Dr. Austin Tam-George, said that the three companies operating in Aluu community, Ikwerre Local Government Area of the state, were sealed up for aggravating air pollution and breach of environmental laws.
He noted that directors of the affected companies would face prosecution in accordance with the law and warned all individuals and companies engaging in practices that pollute the air and ruin the environment, to desist or face the full wrath of the law.
The commissioner assured that while the state remained open for investment, government was committed to the implementation of the United Nations Declarations on the importance of fresh air and creation of sustainable livelihoods in the communities. 