A businessman, Wasiu Ajani, has told an Agege Customary that he decided to turn to adultery when his wife began to starve him of sex.
Ajani, who is a resident of Kolawole Street, Orile Agege, said this, while responding to his wife’s petition before the court.
He accused his wife of not allowing him to enjoy his 23-year-old marriage to her, thereby forcing him to seek comfort with other
women.
“I try my best to cater for my family, but my wife is never satisfied. Truly, I have been having affairs with women outside, since she has been denying me sex at home,” he told the court.
He also accused his wife of having sexual intercourse with a neighbour.
Ajani said his wife’s lack of seriousness was responsible for his refusal to legalise the 23-year-old union between the two of them.
“She keeps moving in and out of the marriage whenever there is any misunderstanding between us,” he claimed.
He, however, appealed to the court not to dissolve his marriage, claiming that he still loved his
wife.
Ajani’s wife, Morenike, had earlier urged the court to dissolve her 23-year-old marriage over lack of care by her husband.
“My husband is irresponsible; he has refused to make any attempt to legalise our union. He is a drunkard, who drinks to stupor and misbehaves; and this usually leads to a serious disagreement between us,” she said.
She added that she decided to move out of her husband’s house in 2013, when life became unbearable
for her.
“I can no longer bear the emotional and verbal torture I suffer in his hands. We no longer behave like a couple because my husband does not give me peace of mind; neither does he fend for the family,” she said.
She also accused her husband of abandoning her children.
“I have been paying the children’s school fees, clothing and feeding them and my husband does not care whether we are alive or dead. He told my first child to learn a trade, even when he wanted to further his education.
All my husband does is to drink and engage in extramarital affairs. He is not caring and lacks respect for the institution of marriage,” Morenike said.
The court’s President, Mrs. Ibironke Elabor, however, adjourned the case and advised the couple to let peace reign in their home. 