killed and several others injured, when members of a suspected cult group, Eiye, allegedly attacked residents in a part of Shomolu in  Lagos.
Our. correspondent gathered that violence occurred in the area, when members of the Eiye cult group stormed the community and attacked residents in retaliation for earlier fisticuffs between one of them, Ororo, and some other residents.
The violence also resulted in the destruction of property worth millions of naira.
“It was the fight between Ororo and a boy in this area that led to this violence. When the fight started, leaders of the community intervened and settled the matter, but to our surprise, he (Ororo) went to bring his people to attack other people in our community. I also learnt that one person died in the hospital after being attacked at Bajulaiye,” a resident, Mr. Taiwo Babaleje, told our correspondent.
Another resident, Tiyamiu Julius, said the violent attack on the community was an outcome of the disagreement that occurred at the last All Progressives Congress’ ward congress in the area.
He said, “The cultists are working for some of the politicians in this area. They went after one Kola, who lives in Bajulaiye Compound, and the APC members that belong to another camp, and attacked him with broken bottle and knife. The fight was extended to our community due to the inconclusive ward congress of the party.
“A politician, who serves as a supervisory councilor for agriculture in the local government, aided his brothers and colleagues in terrorising the community. He claimed his family house had been sold; so he is not at risk of losing any property. Some political big wigs are also encouraging and sponsoring one, known as Federal, to disturb our community.”
When our correspondent visited the scene of the incident, pieces of several broken bottles littered the ground. Some of the victims of the violence were also seen being given medical attention.
One of the victims, who simply identified himself as Tunde, gave account of how he was attacked in his compound by the suspected cultists during the violence.
“I was on my way from work, when I was accosted by the group. Immediately they stopped me, they collected my belongings and descended on me with bottles. I was later taken to a hospital by people in my area,” he said.
Some residents, who pleaded anonymity, however, alleged that the hoodlums were sponsored by some politicians within the area.
They also explained that the hoodlums had once been barred by the traditional leader of the community, Baale Alhaji Yunusa, but a politician in the area allegedly brought them back.
“The Baale of Bajulye, Alhaji Yunisa, sacked them from our community when he saw that they were creating problems, but one of the popular politicians in our local government asked them to come back,” a resident, who simply identified himself as Olaitan, said.
Meanwhile, leaders of the community have called on the police to restore peace to the area. They urged the police to flush out the hoodlums from the area.
“We appeal to the police to come and intervene. Since these boys started, several people have been injured. We also learnt that one person has also died. Our lives are not safe anymore in their hands as we now live in fear. On several occasions, we will just wake up and see that our properties have been vandalised. The Police should please save us,” a landlord in the area, Mr. Kareem Obanla, said.
The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Superintendent Chike Oti, said, “The Police will commence immediate investigation on the case and ensure that perpetrators are brought to book while peace is restored in the area.” 