Governor of Imo state, Rochas Okorocha, has admitted that he joined the All Progressives Congress, at the risk of his second term in office. This was contained in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, on Tuesday. The Governor also insisted he would not leave APC for “gold diggers”. “Okorocha is one of the principal founders of APC. And when he took the mainstream of APGA to join the merger that gave birth to APC, he was not under any pressure to do so. He even took that action at the risk of his second tenure. “He became the propeller of APC in Imo and the whole of South East. Mobilizing people for the party in Imo, Ebony, Abia, Enugu, and Anambra States. He was the rallying point. And he did that in the overall interest of the South-East and indeed, APC. “If Governor Okorocha did not take good percentage of APGA to APC, the party would not have had the kind of national spread it has till today. For that reason, they called him all sorts of derogatory names which Nigerians all know, including Alhaji in Government House, Okoro-Hausa, and Rochas Buhari. “When the APC came for campaign in 2015 in Imo and all the states in the South-East he was the point man. Today, APC has become the party to envy. Nobody is again talking about Rochas and Buhari going to use APC to Islamize the Igbos. “Today too, the same people who called him names have begun to market falsehood against him including the fake story of his leaving APC for APGA. All these could show the level of frustration on the side of the ten-man Coalition. They are been hunted by their inglorious actions. “One may also wish to know that while the unfounded story of the governor leaving APC is yet to dry, they have also come up with another funny one, that the governor is in coma. These people do not know God and of course they are afraid of both the present and the future. “They won’t be allowed to reap where they never sold. Their deceit will expire in no distant time. And no Landlord leaves his house for unfaithful tenants. The name Rochas is the fibre of APC in Imo and the whole of South-East. “And anybody who says it is not true should tell Nigerians why it is only in Imo you have APC governor, 24 out of the 27 House of Assembly members, three House of Representative members and one Senator, in the whole of South-East. Time will tell what happens in APC in Imo and the whole of South-East,” the statement read. 