A Non-Governmental Organisation, His Marvellous Grace Support Foundation, has said that it has become imperative to put an end to female circumcision and genital mutilation, a practice that is still prevalent in rural communities in Nigeria.
Towards this end, the NGO organised an enlightenment programme in the Ikorudu area of Lagos to sensitise the public and draw attention to the health hazards associated with the practice.
Speaking on the occasion, HMGSF Coordinator, Mrs. Oluwadarasimi Tayo-Ladega, said the foundation was perturbed by the seeming high rate of female circumcision in rural communities despite the obvious health, social and psychological challenges traceable to the practice.
She added that it was in a bid to create awareness and stem the tide of the practice that the programme was organised.
“We are trying to create awareness about the bad practice; we have come together to discuss the issue at the rural level. We will also be going to media houses to enlighten the people to let them know about the negative effects of the practice,” Ladega said.
She said that some of the health hazards associated with the cutting of female genitals include complications at child birth, which often leads to premature death and high mortality rate, exposure to infectious diseases and lack of sexual drive.
“Female circumcision has great effects on marriage and could lead to severe marital disharmony as the act reduces the urge and drive for sex, which is a predominant factor in marriage. Female genital mutilation affects the psyche of the woman because you are not moved sexually and when you marry a man that is very sexually active, that becomes a problem,” she said.
Ladega said although she was aware that the practice was in line with tradition to curtail sexual immorality among female folks, its effects could be much more colossal and dangerous than forestalling sexual promiscuity.
A victim of female circumcision, who also participated at the forum, Tobiloba Ogunsola, said she was subjected to the harrowing experience when she was much younger, adding that it was not a pleasant one.
“I am a survivor of female circumcision and my mummy told me that the essence was to forestall promiscuity. The experience was not nice. When I was eight years old, I had infections and went through a lot. When I was in labour, I had a lot of issues because of circumcision,” she said.
A human rights activist, Comrade Lateef Akinborode, urged parents to shun the practice, saying it would usually impose many adverse effects on the victim’s future. 