… say ‘we’ll resist any attempt to rubbish our ambassador’  As reactions continue to trail Senate President Bukola Saraki’s claim that the ulterior motive behind the transfer of some suspected cultists from Kwara State to Abuja by the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, was to implicate him, his kinsmen have vowed to resist any action aimed at persecuting the Number 3 Citizen.
Though there were divergent views on the justification for the transfer, many of the youths and leaders of Saraki’s community, who spoke in separate interviews with our correspondent in his Agbaji base, in the Ilorin West Local Government Area of Kwara State, maintained that the IGP was only trying to score cheap political goals with the controversial case.
The Chief Imam, and Traditional Head of Agbaji Quarters, Alhaji Sheikh Aminullai Tantolohun Ahmad, specifically called on President Muhammadu Buhari to leave Saraki alone, stressing that the Senate President would never be involved in such a thing as sponsoring cultists on a killing spree.
Sheikh Hammad, who was in company with all the Magajis of Agbaji quarters, when he spoke with our correspondent on Sunday, said Buhari should instruct his appointees to face the work they had been appointed to do and allow Saraki “concentrate on his divinely ordained calling at the National Assembly.”
He said, “Agbaji is the seat of Islamic Religion; our forefathers are renowned Islamic scholars. No freeborn of Agbaji would get involved in any illegality, not to talk of sponsoring cultism or any social vices.
“Dr. Bukola Saraki is our son; he has a listening ear; he knows he is an ambassador of this quarters and he would never do anything to tarnish the image of the community. We know this latest attempt to frame him up is a continuation of the orchestrated onslaught against him since his emergence as the Senate President, all with the aim of bringing him down.
“We know no weapon unjustly fashioned against our son will prosper. We, however, want to call on President Muhammadu Buhari to leave our son alone; he should instruct his appointees to face the work they’ve been appointed to do and allow Bukola Saraki concentrate on his divinely ordained calling at the National Assembly.
“We know that Bukola Saraki has nothing against the President. He is giving the President his unflinching support; so, we expect the President, and indeed, all Nigerians to reciprocate that, and not unnecessarily witch-hunt our son.
“This is not to say we are against ridding our society of cultism and other vices. However, this must not be turned to an avenue to settle political scores.”   ‘SARAKI CAN’T BE RUBBISHED’
The President of the Agbaji youth umbrella body, Agbaji Integrated Youth, Tosho Agbaji, described the Senate President as a peace loving and law abiding citizen of Nigeria, who abhorred criminality in all ramifications.
He said, “Dr. Saraki is a peace loving and law abiding Nigerian. I see this latest attempt as a continuation of the persecution of the Senate President, which had been well coordinated since his emergence as Senate President about three years ago. Bukola Saraki is an ambassador of Agbaji; we won’t sit down and watch him being rubbished. We won’t hesitate to mobilise people to the streets and possibly employ all legal means to ensure the enemy of the country never triumphs.
“The suspects have confessed to the crime; they have been profiled as cultists and all their victims, as contained in the press release of the Kwara State Police Command, were rival cultists. So why the attempt to politicise the matter?” ‘TIME TO SEND CRIMINALS PACKING’
In a radical twist, however, the Ilorin Emirate Descendants Progressives Union has thrown its weight behind the IGP’s action, stressing that they will support any move that will end cultism and social vices in Ilorin and its environs.
The President of the union, Amb. Usman Abdulazeez, who spoke with our correspondent at the union’s National Secretariat, in Ilorin, on Saturday, said, “We are in total support of the transfer of suspects to any part of the country, provided it will afford the Police the opportunity to do a thorough job. I am aware this is not the first time suspects would be transferred out of the state. So, I see no reason why anybody should raise any reservation.
“I would like to believe that the fear, as raised by the Senate President, was based on the experience of Senators Dino Melaye and Sheu Sani, who were both allegedly framed for armed robbery and murder, respectively.”
He added, “I implore politicians to allow the Police do a thorough job. We can’t continue to politicise everything. If the arrested suspects have truly committed the crime, we must support the law enforcement agencies towards ensuring the offenders are brought to book.
“We would never be dragged into politics of rumour-mongering; our concern is that our society must be rid of crime and criminality, and in that light, IEDPU will give relevant agencies all the necessary support to restore sanity to Ilorin and Kwara State as a whole.”
Speaking in the same vein, the State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Mr. Iyiola Oyedepo, described the arrest of the suspects as a welcome development, adding that all hands must be on deck towards ensuring social vices are made unattractive.
He said, “I have tried to rationalise the reservations of the Senate President to no avail. The police have the right to investigate from any part of the country. Investigation has no jurisdiction, especially when the police are scared powerful forces might want to tamper with the course of investigation; they tend to isolate the suspects until investigations are completed.
“Most of the arrested suspects have serially had cause to visit the police stations and even prisons on numerous instances of cultism and criminality. It is surprising how they tend to regain their freedom a few days after arrest and that is why some of us are of the opinion that these criminals have support from highly placed members of the society.”
“If Dr. Bukola Saraki or anybody else has nothing to hide, they need not worry or nurse any fear. All stakeholders must give the Police the necessary support. I implore the Police not to rest on its oars until criminals are sent packing from Kwara State.”
In the same vein, the Coordinator of the Alliance for New Kwara, Mallam Ibrahim Abdulmajeed, who hails from the same Agbaji area as Saraki, described the uproar trailing the suspects’ transfer out of Ilorin as unnecessary and ill-conceived.
He stressed that cultism was a menace that had eaten deep into the fabrics of the Ilorin society hitherto known for its high moral teachings, based on its rich Islamic culture.
He said, “It is good they’ve been arrested and transferred to Abuja. Whenever they start their fight, nobody is guaranteed of safety; they are usually ruthless. Those kinds of people don’t deserve to live in a sane society with the level of their barbarity.
“If Dr. Bukola Saraki has nothing to do with the arrested cultists, why complain about where the suspected serial murderers are being prosecuted? What should be of paramount importance to him as the highest ranking politician in the state is diligent investigation as well as prosecution of the suspects, and possibly arrest of more.”
The coordinator added, “We all know this is not the first time the suspects will be arrested. It’s, however, not funny that they usually regain their freedom a few weeks after, only to continue their reign of terror on the society.
“As a bonafide son of Agbaji like Dr. Bukola Saraki, who has accused the IGP of wanting to frame him up, all I can advise politicians across divides is to steer clear of this investigation and desist from imputing unnecessary sentiments into a purely criminal matter. Whoever is not satisfied with the outcome of the investigation can approach the law court for redress and even demand for damages if libelled or slandered.”  JUSTICE IS ALL WE ASK FOR – VICTIMS’ RELATIVES
Speaking with our correspondent on the development, Biodun Ajikobi, a cousin of one of the victims, Bukola Ajikobi, commended the Police for arresting the killers of his ‘brother’ and doing everything possible to bring them to book.
He said Bukola was just 22 years old when he was cut down in his prime by blood thirsty cultists in 2016, adding that his parents and family members had not got over the shock of his death, especially when the culprits had not been prosecuted.
“This latest arrest is a welcome development; we hope the law will catch up with them. It is only when the killers face the music that the soul of my cousin and other victims will have the deserved rest,” he said.
However, for the brother of Wasiu, another victim popularly known as Adanri, “whoever kills by the sword must surely die by the sword.”
“Although Wasiu was one of my closest siblings, I usually cautioned him on some of his activities; he failed to heed the family’s advice. It’s rather unfortunate he had to pay with his life, leaving behind his aged mum,” the victim’s brother, who pleaded anonymity, said. 