A Non-Governmental Organisation, Beulah Worldwide Initiative, has provided free treatment to over 700 Lagos residents for different ailments at a medical outreach organised recently.
The Foundation, which started in 2006, engages in social responsibility via medical attention, skills development, distribution of food items, clothes and sharing the words of God.
The Convener, Chinyere Ononiwu, in a chat with our correspondent, said the aim of the programme was to inspire hope again in the lives of people and also to help in impacting community for national development.
“The aim is to get to the grassroots because I realised that many individuals and communities in this country are not getting what they should get and that has to change, and to make real change happen, it has to start from the grassroots,” Ononiwu said.
The young and vibrant lady added that the programme was to change the mindset of Nigerian youths about their entitlement and be proactive in whatever they have chosen to do.
“For me, I don’t have to be a millionaire first to start this. So, they don’t need to have all the money to start anything. I’m doing this because I believe it was God that sent me. That is the only reason somebody like me can do this. It is not like I kept blocks of money somewhere, but with the help of God, I am able to do it,” she said.
The convener added that the feedback had been tremendous and encouraging in different dimensions, because, according to her, the initiative was also faith-based.
“We have also had a couple of skills development training and it’s important to note that it has impacted people to the level where they want something better for their lives,” Ononiwu said.
On the recent remark by President Muhammadu Buhari, concerning Nigerian youths, ononiwu said it was unfair for the President of a country to make such an uncomplimentary statement on an international platform.
“He’s not being fair to millions of youths like me, who are actually working hard and trying to make things happen in a dysfunctional society like ours,” she said.
On the number of people that came for the programme, she said though it was encouraging, it also showed how bad the issue of welfare had become in the country.
“Even if government is doing something on health, the turnout has shown that it was not reaching the people who really need it,” she said.
Ononiwu also used the opportunity to call on multinationals and drug manufacturing companies to partner with the Foundation in order to help average Nigerians to get reasonable health care.
People were treated for hypertension, malaria, typhoid, diabetes, eye and nerve problems. Glasses were provide for those with eye problems.
Also, over 120 children were dewormed during the programme. 