The sour relationship between Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, and the Deputy Governor, Prince Eze Madumere, has continued to worsen, especially following the humiliation of the governor at the All Progressives Congress ward congresses held on May 5, The Point’s investigations have revealed.
Already, necessary steps are reportedly being taken to impeach Madumere, latest this month’s end, findings have also shown.
The deputy governor is at loggerheads with his boss, the governor, over the former’s insistence on contesting the governorship ticket of the APC with Uche Nwosu, Okorocha’s son in-law.
The abysmal defeat of the governor by a coalition group within the party reportedly thickened a resolve to move for the fresh impeachment of the deputy governor who was seen as the brain behind the humiliation of Okorocha at the congresses.
Some months earlier, efforts had been made to make some lawmakers sign up for Madumere’s impeachment over what was considered as his vaulting ambition of wanting to become the governor, come 2019.
The Point gathered that the participation of the deputy governor in the last ward congresses in which he aligned himself with opposition members like Senator Ifeanyi Ararume, Hon. Emeka Nwajiuba, former Secretary to the State Government, Sir Jude Ejiogu; BoT member of APC, Mr. Jasper Azuatalam; Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Nwagwu, Chief Onyemaechi Alan B., Chief Theodore Ekechi, among others, infuriated Governor Okorocha, who reportedly vowed to do everything within his powers to whittle down the rising profile of his Deputy.   HOUSE SACKS MADUMERE’S IN-LAW
In line with the plan to get back at the deputy governor, the House Majority Leader, Uche Oguike from Ikeduru Local Government area, said to be an in-law to the Deputy Governor, was on Thursday removed as Majority Leader and replaced with Lugard Osuji, a member representing Owerri Municipal. Osuji was equally sacked last year for allegedly opposing the 2017 budget presentation of the governor.
It was gathered that with Osuji coming back, the House would have a smooth sail in removing the embattled deputy governor.
However, Speaker of the House of Assembly, Hon. Acho Ihim, has denied that there was a move to impeach the deputy governor, saying that the removal of Hon. Oguike as the Majority Leader was to re-jig the principal officers for firm control of the House.
The Speaker who was allegedly lobbying underground to be the deputy governor to Uche Nwosu, told our correspondent to discountenance the matter: “You should discountenance the issue of impeachment. We have no problem with the deputy governor,” he assured.
However, a source close to the state government disclosed that the Speaker may not be saying the obvious. But the source said the Speaker’s ambition is hanging in the balance as the current House of Representatives member (Okigwe South), Hon. Chike Okafor, is now being positioned for the deputy governor position.
However, the deposed majority leader, Oguike, reacting to his removal, appeared confused as he said, “I only came to the office this morning to hear the announcement. I don’t know why I was removed.” FRESH IMPEACHMENT PLOT
This was not the first time there was a plot to impeach the deputy governor.
Two months ago, there was an alleged attempt to impeach the deputy governor, but it failed following an outcry from the people of the state. Now, Governor Okorocha, it was learnt, is planning to represent the impeachment motion to the House.
However, a source close to the coalition group said the latest plan by the governor to move for impeachment of the deputy governor may not work because every member in the coalition group has a member in the House.
“We are prepared to resist any move by the governor because a political party is constituted by people and not by one man. If all the stakeholders and party chieftains affirm that our congresses were successful, then there is no way one man can be right,” source decried. BUHARI ASKS OKOROCHA TO MEND FENCES
This line of argument was in line with what President Muhammadu Buhari told the governor when he rushed to Daura last Sunday after searching desperately for the result sheets of the congress to no avail, it was learnt.
Buhari, it was gathered, asked the governor to reconcile with his people as everybody would be against him. “You are quarreling with your deputy governor; go and reconcile with your people. Leave party affairs for the party people,” Buhari reportedly advised him.
The problem between the governor his deputy came to an all-time low following the declaration of intent by Madumere to run for the governorship race in 2019 against the wish of Governor Okorocha who had positioned his son-in and Chief of Staff, Nwosu, to succeed him.
The governor who had wanted his deputy to jettison the idea of contesting for the coveted seat instead had gave Madumere a nod to go for the senatorial seat, but the Mberi-born politician politely turned down the offer, insisting he had the requisite experience, exposure and vision to be the next governor of Imo State.
Many in the administration, including the governor, misinterpreted Madumere’s standpoint as rebellion.
Since then, Governor Okorocha at various meetings, has lamented over the decision of his deputy not to key into his project of imposing his son-in-law, Nwosu, as his successor, labelling Madumere as one of his arch-enemies.
It was gathered that the governor and his wife, Mrs. Nkechi Okorocha, had never been happy with Madumere but the deputy governor tactfully avoided them to align with the coalition group to fight the governor underground. CABINET RESUFFLE LIKELY
Madumere may not be alone in the whole conundrum, as there are plans to reshuffle the state’s cabinet, which is targeted at rooting out those who are not compliant to the project of making the governor’s son-in-law contest for governor, sources informed.
It was learnt also that the acerbic relationship between Okorocha and Madumere had claimed casualties, as the governor had sacked six of the people the deputy governor brought into his administration.
Aside the plot to impeach the deputy governor, the source alleged, the governor had also stopped all impress and entitlements given to the Deputy Governor’s office, “just to cage him.” ‘THE PEOPLE HAVE MADE A MISTAKE’
Speaking on the development, the National President, Association for Public Analysts, Comrade Princewill Okorie, called on the civil society and the media to always carry out background research on any person seeking public office.
“We are about to make the same mistake we made in 2011 by not checking the background of the people we voted into power. Today, the people we voted to govern us are the ones hunting us, particularly in Imo
State.”
He blamed the deputy governor for supporting the governor’s manipulation of his people for more than six years without raising his voice against any of the governor’s policies.
“If they were not conspirators, they would have raised their voices then or challenged Okorocha. I had expected that their quarrel with Okorocha would have been based on policies.
The argument they are having is self-interest, of becoming the governor in 2019,” Okorie lambasted.
He, however, condemned Governor Okorocha “for his desperation to install his son-in to rule Imo people in 2019”, adding that
the action alone showed that the people made a mistake voting him in as
governor.
“It is regrettable that the people made a wrong choice in 2011 by electing somebody who they never knew his character,” he lamented. 