The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Youth and Sport and Chairman, Main Organising Committee of the 19th National Sports Festival to be hosted in Abuja, Mr Olusade Adesola, has assured that the 17 Sub-Committee members recently inaugurated will deliver a successful event to Nigerians.
He told The Point that members were chosen based on competence, exposure and commitment to successful delivery of assignments and had no doubt in his mind that they will deliver a good Games.
“With about 6 months to the Festival and considering the enormous task involved in the organization of a game of this magnitude the Main Organizing Committee decided to set up relevant Sub Committees to achieve its mandate.
“The 17 Sub-Committee members were chosen based on competence, exposure and commitment to successful delivery of assignments. I am proud of the caliber of persons that make up the sub-Committees and I have no doubt in my mind that we will have good Games,” Adesola said.
In his acceptance speech during the inauguration, the Chairman, Games Services Sub-Committee and Director Grassroots Sports Development Dr Ademola Are thanked the Permanent Secretary for the confidence reposed in the members and promised on behalf of other sub Committee members to deliver an excellent sporting event.
Earlier, the Secretary of the Main Organising Committee and Director Planning, Monitoring and Implementation, Mrs Hauwa Kulu-Akinyemi noted that the 19th National Sports Festival ‘Abuja 2018’ which suffered several postponements and uncertainties has finally become a reality.
Akinyemi thanked the National Council on Sport for its decision to move the Festival to Abuja.
The 17 sub-committees of the Main Organising Committee are Accommodation, Accreditation, Anti-Doping, Feeding, Finance, Games Services, Games Village/Management, Publicity and Communications, Medical, Marketing/ Sponsorship, Opening and Closing Ceremonies and Protocol.
Others are: Security, Transport, Torch of Unity, Venues & Facilities and Zonal Eliminations. 