 The Pensioners in Ogun have accused the former Head of the Presidential Task Force on Pension Reforms, Mr. Abdulrasheed Maina, of fraudulently removing their names from the federal vouchers. They described the development as one of several fraudulent atrocities perpetrated by Maina during his tenure as the officer in charge of the federal pensions. Recalled that Maina was accused of allegedly stolen a sum of N195 billion pension funds. But the State Secretary of the pensioners, Mr. Bola Lawal, at a press conference in Abeokuta, faulted Maina of deliberately omitting the names of the pensioners from the federal vouchers in order to perpetuate the fraud. Lawal said that the fraud being perpetrated under the tenure of the erstwhile chairman of the presidential pension reform task force was the reason some of the pensioners had not been paid their entitlement because of the removal of the names from the vouchers. He said “Many of us might  have been  hearing  about  Maina’s gate, that was the reason  for it, during  the time of Maina  as the officer in charge of federal pensions a lot of atrocities were performed by removing the names of the pensioners from vouchers and the names  of these  people  went to where nobody  knows. “So we just find out that if in January they want to pay 250 pensioners we just discovered that 50 names have been omitted, may be in the next two months the same thing and those names that have been omitted cannot go back into the vouchers. “So we decided to collate or go to the federal government on the issue, so no reason other than fraudulent practises their names were removed because of fraud and that is why Maina ran away and up till now we are still looking for him, he is going into hiding but he cannot come out the fraud that was perpetrated by maina was the cause of our problem.” The State Chairman of the pensioners, Chief Keshinton Odukoya lamented that the removal of the names of the retirees from the pension vouchers had hindered the pensioners from receiving their funds. Keshinton therefore urged the federal government to reinstate the omitted names of the pensioners into its voucher for prompt payment of their pensions. He regretted that the National Verification exercise meant to correct the omitted names was a failure as the problems of the pensioners still remain the same after it had packed off. The chairman said, “For the past ten years or there-about, many names of the pensioners with the federal share of pension were yanked out from the payment vouchers. Slot of efforts were made to get the names restored into the list of payment voucher without success. “The P.T.A.D administration promised that the National Verification exercise would take care of the omission and the verification exercise had come and gone, but six months after the verification, their condition remain the same.” “We are using this medium to call upon the federal government for the reinstatement of their names into the federal vouchers for regular monthly payment of pension, while their arrears of pension could be paid as soon as there is availability of funds.” he added. 