Stakeholders in the Nigerian fashion industry have revealed that Nigerians spent over N2 trillion on imported textiles and ready-made clothing in 2017.
An impeccable source in the Nigerian Textile Manufacturers Association, who would not want his name mentioned, told our correspondent that Nigerians spent over N2 trillion on textiles and ready-made clothes from India, China, the United States of America, and the United Kingdom, among others, last year.
She said, “Influx of smuggled goods continued to flood major textile markets in Kantin Kwari, Kano; Balogun, Oshodi, Lagos; and malls across the country. The development does not only undermine the local industry, steal our jobs, and deprive government of revenue, but it also drains the nation’s foreign exchange reserves.”
The Creative Director, Nigeria Fashion Week, Mr. Chip Odina, also explained that the Nigeria fashion industry had yet to get much of global attention as its major challenge remained the influx of used clothes in the country.
Odina, who spoke with our correspondent in a telephone interview, said, “The issue of smuggling of clothes into Nigeria has reduced the revenue being generated by the industry. If we have about half of Lagosians in the fashion industry, and students in different aspects of fashion designing, then we can generate as much as possible, to support the economic growth of the country.
“The growth of the industry is slow and that is affecting us from meeting international standards. Aside from the influx of used clothes, the challenges of irregular power supply and lack of adequate machineries, which will improve the output of the industry, are also the bane of the growth of the sector.”
The Vice President, Fashion Designers Association of Nigeria, Mr. Kola Kudus, explained that though the industry was growing, there was more to be done by the government and stakeholders for sustainable growth.
Kudus further explained that the industry had not grown to the level where clothes could be produced at cheaper prices that the average citizen in Nigeria could afford. To achieve this, he said, there was the need for more machineries to be produced in the country.
He said, “The Bank of Industry dedicated a fund for the fashion industry but the criteria to access the fund are quite tough; so to make the fashion world grow to international standard, there is the need for the provision of more funds to the industry.” 