The immediate past governor of Plateau State, Jonah Jang has asked a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory in Abuja to order his release from the custody of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. The ex-governor said he was diabetic. Jang approached the court barely 72 hours after his arrest by the EFCC over an alleged N6.3bn fraud. Jang, in a motion on notice filed by his team of lawyers led by Christopher Eichie, Yakubu Philemon, and Kola Oseni, said his continued detention by the EFCC had made it difficult for him to receive medical attention, which has made his “blood sugar control to be in a bad state.” A copy of the court processes was given to journalists during a press conference jointly addressed by his media consultant, Clinton Garuba, and another member of his legal team, David Dusu. While Dusu said he had filed an action at the Plateau State High Court in Jos to press for Jang’s bail, Garuba condemned the manner he was picked, describing his predicament as “politically motivated.” Dusu said, “Jang was told by the EFCC operatives that he would see the EFCC chairman (Ibrahim Magu); but as soon as he got to the Tunde Idiagbon Block in the commission, he was told he couldn’t go home and that has been the case. He has been kept in the EFCC custody since Monday and has not been charged to court. “Ironically, both the EFCC and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other-related offences Commission are charging him with the same issue. We are seeing some political intimidation. We are not in a banana republic where anything can happen. They have kept him for 72 hours, the EFCC is holding him unconstitutionally. We are appealing to Nigerians to mount pressure on the EFCC to release Jang.” The Peoples Democratic Party had in its reaction asked the EFCC to grant Jang bail because of “his health condition and the fact that he is denied access to his lawyers, family and medication.” Speaking with journalists in Jos, the Chairman of the PDP in Plateau State and a former Minister of Sports, Damishi Sango, said, “As a sitting senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Jonah David Jang who is presently in the custody of the EFCC has been denied bail. This, we consider as a gross violation of his fundamental human rights as provided under the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “In making the appeal for the release of Senator Jang, we are mindful of his health condition and the fact that he is being denied access to his lawyers, family and medication. “Jang is under threat because of his presidential ambition. If anybody wants to be President, the present government will hold and twist the person’s neck. They think that Jang has large supporters in Plateau State and that if allowed, his popularity might jeopardise their chances in the 2019 election. But the people of Plateau State have taken a decision to sack the APC in 2019.” 