Professor Tunde Adeniran is a former Minister of Education. He also contested the national chairmanship position of the Peoples Democratic Party last December. He has since, along with other founding leaders of the party, moved to the Social Democratic Party. In this interview with AYO ESAN, Adeniran says, among other things, that the mass exodus of people like him from the PDP naturally sounds the death knell for the party. Excerpts:  Many of your admirers were shocked when you, along with some other founding fathers of the Peoples Democratic Party, left the party and defected to the Social Democratic Party. Why this decision?
I have said it over and over that, it was clear that the party (PDP) would not divorce itself from the culture of imposition. In other words, it was clear that the party leadership was not ready to respect the rules of engagement. Some of the youths that were anti-democratic and that we had coopted over the years and had tried over and over to ensure we get them to do things the right way, refused to adjust. You cannot continue to do things the wrong way; you are destroying the future. When you go against the principles, policies, programmes and vision of anybody, it is sabotage. So the people behind it are people who have betrayed the trust.
So, we have not betrayed the PDP by leaving the party, but it is the PDP that has betrayed some of us. The PDP has betrayed us because they set aside what we all subscribed to in the beginning. When you go back and read the preambles of the PDP, you will know that the party has betrayed many of us.
We started this party, and when you see the mission and vision of the party being aborted, you won’t be happy about it. Use me as a reference point; in the past, I had the mandate to go to the Senate, it was taken away from me, given to someone who did not even contest; who was not even a member of our party. I didn’t leave the party because I felt we needed to work; the answer was not to leave.
On two or three different occasions, other parties had invited me because of some of the things that I went through but I said ‘no, I am not an opportunist. I didn’t come into politics to be seeking for positions and then if I am not given, I will leave the party, no, that was not the motive.’ Really, there was the need to serve the people, but when things started getting to a situation where that opportunity to serve the people was no longer there, there would no longer be justice. It was as bad as that. If some other people had been elected through a fair, credible process, I would have worked with them. I have done it in the past.  When you left the PDP with Professor Jerry Gana and others, what informed the choice of the Social Democratic Party?
Because it was the best alternative. We consider so many options, including forming a new party and we said that if we cannot get any party that is ideal, we would then move to form a new one. But looking at the constitution of the SDP and of course, the leadership of the party, we believed that all that was needed is the enforcement of the constitution. Once it is enforced, we can continue to develop it, so that it will become an ideal party. The constitution of SDP and of course, its principle and philosophy are what we agreed with. How far can SDP go in 2019?
By 2019, we are winning the elections. We know that some people are looking at it that SDP is a new party and that it will take time before it will stand on its feet; but I can assure you that we will win. We are collaborating with other stakeholders in the political project. Certainly, we know we have to go into alliance with some other parties so that we will deliver the goods that are meant for the society. We also believe that looking at the various programmes of the party, they are pointing to the direction of a greater future and we hope to do that which is right within the framework of the party. There was a reconciliation effort after the last convention of the PDP, aimed at pacifying you, Bode George and others. But you still left the party. Are you saying there is no hope for the PDP in future?
No, I don’t see any hope; the soul is gone .To me, the soul is gone because not only those that were committed to it have left but many more are moving out very soon. So I do not see any future for the party. Some analysts believe that the SDP is now the ‘third force’ and that many PDP and APC leaders are making underground moves to join the party. Is this really the case?
Certainly, many are joining and many more will still join to fulfill the emerging force which will overtake the other two big parties now and of course, become dominant within the Nigeria political framework and win elections in 2019 and form the government in most of the states as well as at the federal level.  What do you see to the Coalition for Nigeria Movement formed by former President Olusegun Obasanjo and which fused with the ADC recently?
Well, I think it is a movement that is also supposed to promote some goals and objectives. Some of them have been relating with us .And also, the former president meant well. But in the present circumstance, there is no way by which you can effect any change within the political system unless you have a political party, because that is the only way you can form government at any level. Whether they work with SDP or not, we are waiting, because we know that the objectives and goals of SDP are for the uplift of the average Nigerian and his liberation from the stranglehold of the oppressors who have taken it upon themselves to take over power. President Muhammadu Buhari has declared his intention to go for a second term. What are his chances?
Well, his declaration for a second term is quite legitimate. I wish him luck but I know that Nigerians would vote against him and he will be roundly defeated because whatever hope Nigerians had by voting overwhelmingly for him, that hope has been dashed. He has done nothing to change their lives. There have been unemployment and frustration of the youths. In 2019, will SDP field a presidential candidate? And what are the chances of the party in that election?
Yes, we will field a presidential candidate and certainly, a formidable candidate that will win the election by defeating other parties’ candidates. The current spate of killings by herdsmen, especially in the Middle Belt, has been on the increase. What do you think the government can do to stop these killings?
With the political will, government can do it. I think it is very important that we are innovative. The insurgency is not good for our nation; it is not good for the administration. And above all, it creates dangers for Nigerians. When you see brothers and sisters killing each other; what for? So government should stand up and do something about it. The National Assembly has been in conflict with the Presidency over so many matters, despite the fact that majority of the members are from the same party with the President. What’s your take on this?
It is a healthy development because when any arm of government is seeing the other as not performing to capacity, it is important to take it up, because, they are common arms of government: the executive, the legislature and of course, the judiciary. The judiciary is on its own because it cannot be contending with either the legislature or the executive. The other two can, but I believe that the sooner we get this adversary relationship out, the better. They need to cooperate and work together as arms of the same government and above all, also put interest of the Nigerian people at heart, and above other considerations. What is your advice for the electorate and the politicians as the 2019 general elections draw near?
My advice to politicians is that they must remember that whatever they do will determine the fate of the country and of the youths .Those who are fighting for office in 2019 must now turn a new leaf and come out only if they are competent to make meaningful change in the lives of Nigerians. I also expect that those who are vying for positions should put the interest of the people first, over and above any other thing. And to the younger ones; they should do everything to monitor the various parties and leaders who are vying for one position or the other. Vote wisely; you cannot vote wrongly and start complaining. You have the opportunity now to make a clear choice. Make sure you make the right choice that will go a long way in ensuring good governance. I also expect everybody to avoid corruption. This must be avoided as much as possible, so that people will see politics as an opportunity to serve. 