…says British High Commission will organize events around the cracker The British High Commissioner to Nigeria, His Excellency, Paul Arkwright, has assured the Nigeria Football Federation that England is taking the upcoming international friendly between both countries on June 2, 2018 at Wembley serious, as they hope to use the match to prepare their national teams for the world cup in Russia.
Arkwright revealed this while receiving the NFF chieftains comprising of the President of Nigeria Football Federation, Mr. Amaju Melvin Pinnick and the 2nd Vice President, Mallam Shehu Dikko at the British High Commission in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.
He further used the opportunity to inform the NFF that the High Commission will organize a number of events around the match both in the United Kingdom and Nigeria.
“Let me also assure you that England is taking this match very serious. It is more than just a game; it is a big preparatory game towards the FIFA World Cup. More than that, the historical ties between our two countries are there to be considered, so it will also serve to strengthen and enhance relations and good collaboration between our countries,” said Arkwright.
Pinnick, however, informed Arkwright that the Nigerian High Commission in the United Kingdom is also involved in efforts to ensure the match is a huge success, coming less than two weeks before the opening match of the Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup finals.
“We appreciate the excellent cordial relations between our two countries and that is one of the reasons this is more than just a match. It is coming up only two weeks before Nigeria’s first match at the FIFA World Cup, and 16 days before England’s first match in Russia.
“Ours are two countries that have so much in common. We believe this match will go a long way in strengthening England-Nigeria relations in several areas,” Pinnick said.
Also present at the meeting was Louise Edwards, who is Second Secretary, Political of the British High Commission in Nigeria.
The Super Eagles and the Three Lions will lock horns at the Wembley Stadium on Saturday, 2nd June, in what will be the Eagles’ penultimate friendly match before flying to the World Cup finals in Russia.
Officially, both countries have clashed only twice previously at senior level: one competitive match and one friendly. The friendly was on November 16, 1994, when the Three Lions pipped the Eagles 1-0 at old Wembley Stadium thanks to a first half header by David Platt. The second time was a group phase tie at the 2002 FIFA World Cup finals in Korea/Japan, where both teams ended it 0-0 at the Nagai Stadium in Osaka. 