I want court to make it impossible for him to claim the children in future - Wife 29-year-old housewife, Aishat Ayelotan, has dragged her husband, Ibrahim Ayelotan, before a Customary Court sitting in Ake, Abeokuta, Ogun State, for allegedly denying the paternity of their two children.
Aishat, who asked the court to dissolve their marriage over her husband’s refusal to accept the children as his own, also prayed the court to allow her and Ibrahim to sign an undertaking that would make it impossible for her husband to turn around in future to claim the children.
The woman said that her husband was fond of saying that their two children, Yetunde and Rokeeb, were not his own whenever any argument ensued between her and Ibrahim.
She also said Ibrahim had often accused her of sleeping with a neighbour in their house whenever they had quarrels, which usually ended in his denying the paternity of their two children.
She said, “My husband is fond of fighting with me; that he is not the father of his children. I want the court to dissolve this marriage and I also beg the court to allow us to sign a paper that my husband won’t be able to claim these children in future. “
In his defence, her husband, Ibrahim, told the court that it was true he claimed not to be the father of their children, accusing his wife of having extramarital affairs with other men.
The estranged husband, who stood his ground that the children were not his, maintained that he was ready to sign the document his wife had requested from the court to make unable to claim the children in future.
Ibrahim told the court that his denial of the paternity of the children was as a result of his wife’s shocking outbursts, whenever they had quarrels.
He alleged that his wife was always saying that very soon the children would know who their biological father was.
Ibrahim also told the court that his wife was fond of sleeping in the room of their male neighbour whenever they had any quarrel and would always deny his mother and relatives access to the children.
He said, “I said I am not the father of my two children, Yetunde and Rokeeb, because whenever we quarrel my wife always say to me that very soon my children will know their father and I am ready to sign any document that those children do not belong me.
“My wife is promiscuous and whenever we also have quarrel she usually go to the room of our neighbour, who is a man, to sleep. She does not allow the children to go near my relatives, not to talk of collecting anything offered them by my mother and grandmother.”
While giving his judgment, the President of the court, Chief Akande O.O, asked the husband to ponder on the issue before the court would take any decision.
He, therefore, adjourned the case to June 19, 2018. 