 In his bid to win the senatorial seat of Afenmai senatorial district, Edo State, a candidate of the Action Democratic Party, ADP, Erasmus Ikhide, has promised to regain the long-lost glory of the district. Erasmus, who was an aide of a former Edo State governor, Adams Oshiomhole, said the agony of the Afenmai people must be brought to an end with rightful decision of the voters. His words: “The time has come for the Afenmai people to chart a new beginning in remoulding their lives after several years of suffering and deprivation of the essential things of life by those who mismanaged the trust reposed in them. “I seek to lead this new dawn for the Afenmai people through the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. There can be no better time than now. It’s time to arouse the sleeping giant called Nigeria and unleash its potentials for the good of all and acquit my generation of the charge of a
wasted one. “Since the beginning of the fourth republic, the hope that democracy represents has been dashed by those who turned our freely given mandate to serve their personal interest. Today, there is palpable gloom in the country. Truly, wanton killings, disobedience of court order, human rights violation and economic hardship, mass unemployment have become the order of the day. “It is time to take the country back to the path of sanity and justice. We must begin to demand accountability from the campaign offices of our docile representatives in the national assembly for wasting our collective patrimony on frivolities. Our people must speak in one voice against all forms of immunity, non-accountability, especially the land grabbing and murderous herdsmen. “But we must collectively make this statement: never again shall Afenmai land be governed or represented by a clique of narrow-minded folks who gloried in the poverty of our people. Never again shall Afenmai land be luckless to fold our hands and allow visionless con men and women to decide our fate. Never
again! “The time has come for us to assert our attribute as a free people under God’s protection in a sovereign nation and send a message to those who think power is acquired by primitive conquest,
not through intellectual development or “content of character” that their time is up.” 