As Nigeria marks her 58 years of political independence today, indications have emerged that most Nigerians are worried about the socio-economic and political conditions, which, they confirm, do not call for any celebration. Some notable Nigerians, who spoke to The Point from different parts of the country, noted that the time to roll out the drums in celebration of the country’s independence might not just be now.  Rather, they are calling for a sober reflection, and an introspection of the journey so far, in view of the numerous challenges being faced daily by the people, as a way of charting a better future for Nigeria. Many of those who spoke with our correspondents across the nooks and crannies of the country, expressed disenchantment at the current challenges being faced by Nigerians, across the various sectors and spheres of life, after 58 years of political independence. Some, however, expressed a positive outlook for the future if only the right things could be done by the Federal Government. ‘Poor handling of education unacceptable’ Stakeholders in the education sector, who spoke with our correspondents, were unanimous in their opinions that the Federal Government must be committed to growing the sector. “In our education sector, there are a lot of gaps to be filled; we should focus on closing the gaps. There are still a lot of children on the streets. We need to raise awareness on free education, I mean free. We need qualified teachers; what I mean is the certification of teachers that know what to put in place,” the Chief Executive Officer, Supreme Education Foundation, Mrs. Olubukola Adewuyi, said in an interview with The Point. Corroborating Adewuyi’s views was the Director of Studies in the English Department, University of Uyo, Dr. Ufot Garvey, who lamented that, at 58, the country’s education system was not faring well. “Our education is not where it is supposed to be. Everybody would agree that our education system is not exactly what it should be at this point, especially in a country like Nigeria, with all the resources and materials that we have. With the report that you have, you should know that NLC is on strike; that also affects our education sector. “The universities have also joined the strike; apart from that, ASUU is warming up for another strike because of the failure of the Federal Government to honour some of those promises that were made in the last two years. What is going on in the country in terms of inability of the state government, including the Federal Government, to pay salary of teachers, just like other workers? These are the issues that the Government did not resolve,” Garvey said. He also noted that at the international level, the country’s education system was not reckoned with. “There was a report which says there are about 500 best universities in the world, but there was not even a Nigerian university among them. That is a negative statement about our education system. Our schools – secondary, primary and universities – are not exactly what they should be, and I know that we can do much better,” he said. The Registrar, Federal College of Education, Osiele, Abeokuta, Ogun State, Rafiu Akinola, however, believes that the future is bright for the sector if the Federal Government would do the needful. He urged the Federal Government to declare a state of emergency in education. He said, “Nigeria should make her education sector to be prosperous and to triumph over all known limitations. This feat cannot be achieved overnight. It would require serious commitment through adequate funding and appropriate policies. It may not be out of place if the country should declare a state of emergency in the sector. Governments at the national and state levels would have to accept the obvious and apologise for their failure. Anything short of these would mean that our governments are not remorseful and introspective. “The expected triumph and prosperity of education is a serious business. If Nigeria wants to be on a par with countries that celebrate prosperity in education, there must be a total overhauling of the sector.” Health sector: All is not well – Stakeholders The Chairman, Association of General and Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria, Lagos State Chapter, Dr Tunji Akintade, said all was not well with the health sector now, but that things could still get better. “On a general note, Nigeria has fared well but it can be better. The template to get it better is being strengthened: the primary, secondary and tertiary levels of care are getting better defined. But human resource for health is still a challenge,” he explained in a chat with our correspondent. But the President, Nigerian Medical Association, Dr. Francis Faduyile, in an interview with The Point, said the health sector had not recorded meaningful growth over the years, owing to the neglect of primary healthcare, which he said, was the bedrock of healthcare delivery. He said, “We have minimal improvement.  But largely, we are not close to where we should be. Though we have had more number of tertiary health institutions since our independence, healthcare itself has not dramatically improved over the years. The reason for this is because we have neglected a very important component of healthcare delivery, that is the primary healthcare. It is the one that is closer to the people. “Immunisation and health education are done at that level and this offers treatment of early cases of diseases. It is at the primary healthcare level that we can control the many complications on health conditions that we are seeing today. Unfortunately, what we have seen over the years is total neglect and disregard of the management of the primary healthcare and this has caused a lot of havoc in the sector.” For the health sector, the NMA President called on President Buhari and other political office holders to stop seeking healthcare abroad but invest and budget more for the health system in order to meet their needs and that of other Nigerians. Speaking on the issue of brain drain in the sector, the NMA President identified poor working environment, poor remuneration and lack of equipment as factors responsible for the migration of Nigerian-trained doctors overseas. He noted, “We have doctors and other health practitioners being overworked. Where you are supposed to have 10 doctors to see some number of patients, we end up having one doctor having to see them, day in, day out. Now, you have a doctor seeing 150 to 200 patients in a day and there is no way they can cope. “Some doctors in some states in Nigeria are owed up to six months salary while others are partly paid. These are the reasons we have a lot of our medical personnel leaving this country in their numbers. ”  Nigeria’s democracy under threat – Babatope, others On his part, a former Minister of Transport, Chief Ebenezer Babatope, warned that the country’s democracy was under threat, 58 years after independence, though he expressed gratitude to God for preserving the country as one indivisible entity. He said, “We thank God that 58 years after independence, Nigeria has been preserved as one united entity. We thank God also that we are in democracy. But all hands must be on deck to ensure the preservation of our democracy, which is being threatened by President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress. “What happened in the Osun State Gubernatorial election is a pointer to the fact that APC and President Buhari are not out to strengthen our democracy but are determined to destroy it.  Despite our present situation, we must all do our best to ensure we continue to have a country called Nigeria.” Speaking in the same vein, human rights advocate and lawyer, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), maintained that it was not yet uhuru for Nigeria at 58. Ozekhome told The Point that after 58 years of independence, Nigeria was still “retrogressive, with stunted growth, raped serially by her ungrateful children.” He said the country had been “left behind by peers and even juniors; as well as poorer countries; bedevilled by bad leaders, unimaginable crisis, impunity, corruption, insecurity, nepotism and cronyism,” adding that “she may yet find her feet with the right leadership and strong civil society.” Economic growth too slow for Nigeria’s resources – Experts Meanwhile, economists and financial experts have said that the Nigerian economy has been growing at a rate not synonymous with its level of human and natural resources. An economist and Chief Executive Officer, Economic Inititaives, Dr. Mabel Anosike, said Nigerian leaders had, over the years, prioritised politics over economic issues. She said, “The result is that we grow a bit today and reverse to previous years’ numbers, owing to lack of policy continuity and commitment on the part of leaders, who are mainly interested in personal gains and not collective good. In the past three years, in particular, we have been virtually fixed on a spot, in terms of the country’s Human Development Index and other growth indicators. “I don’t know about the fight against corruption; I am talking about visible gains. Nigeria is too old for this level of growth. For us here, we are collaborating with other groups to put this government on their toes. Enough is enough. There must be some form of direction. There is currently no economic direction.” The Managing Director, Cowry Asset Management Company, Mr. Johnson Chukwu, seems to be in agreement with Ozekhome, especially in the area of economy. Though Chukwu maintained that the fact that Nigeria had remained a united nation, after 58 years, was a source of joy, he lamented that “the level of stunted economy that we have suffered is a source of agony to all Nigerians.” “The reality of the matter is that we have not achieved any of our potential as a nation,” he said. Comparing Nigeria to countries such as Singapore, which got independence five years after Nigeria, Chukwu said, “Singapore is now a developed nation and we are still struggling with the tools of one of the underdeveloped countries. It should be a great concern to every Nigerian but once it becomes a concern to us, then, we should, as a people, use the independence anniversary to decide to change the narrative. “So, the anniversary should be an opportunity for us to reassess our journey to nationhood and make a reasonable decision to change the interjection.” “In terms of economic performance, we have performed woefully; the economy has not been consistent. We have grown our population massively but we have not grown our economic opportunity as much as the population. We have not done well as a country in terms of economic development,” he added. The National President, Progressive Shareholders Association of Nigeria, Mr. Boniface Okezie, said, “I don’t think it is Uhuru. We are not where we are supposed to be as a nation, despite the abundant resources we are blessed with. In terms of infrastructural development, I can say we have achieved a lot. But in terms of democracy, we are not there yet. Ghana is better than us. “Our economic roadmap is not yet defined. At 58, we have just one functional seaport, while other ones in Calabar and Rivers State are lying fallow. People from the South East and South South have to come down to Lagos to do business. That is why we have the Apapa gridlock.” Nigeria has achieved a lot in Sport – Dalung Despite the various challenges in the other sectors, Nigeria appears to have chalked some successes in the area of Sport. Speaking in an exclusive interview with The Point, the Minister of Sport and Youth Development, Comrade Solomon Dalung, said Nigeria had achieved a lot in the area of sports, especially in the last three years. He said this was because the country was able to democratise access to leadership of the various sports federations, leading to greater successes in the various sports. Dalung disclosed that his ministry was working to provide sustainable policies and programmes in conjunction with other stakeholders to promote and enhance sports development. “Appointment into the board of the sporting federations was fully democratised. This singular action informed the emergence of credible leadership for the federations. The immediate dividend of which has been the manifest improvement in the performance of the federations in various continental and international tournaments,” the minister said. He said that democratisation of the sports federation led to the country winning eight gold, two silver and one bronze medal in the African Wrestling Championship in Marrakesh, Morocco. “The country also won one silver medal at the World Championship in Paris, France. Nigeria’s foremost female wrestler, Odunayo Adegoroye, was elected as an Athletes’ Representative to the United World Wrestling Federation. Daniel Igali, the President of the Nigeria Wrestling Federation, was also elected a member of the United World Wrestling Federation Technical Committee,” the minister added. Pain, agony,  anger in the land – ACF National chairman, National Conscience Party, Tank Yinusa, said: “When you are in government, the whole government becomes your constituency and you must work against anything that will be inimical for you to deliver your promises to people… “The burden of pain, agony and anger is too much in the land. They must be relieved. They have always been trying to prove to the people that they are trying. I heard the Minister of Information saying they have turned the country into a construction site and I laughed. “That is not fair, they are just insulting the intelligence of the Nigerians.  How can you say such a thing? When people can see that nothing is going on.” The country is divided more than ever  – ADC In his reaction, the national chairman of African Democratic Congress,Chief Ralphs Nwosu, said : “It is unfortunate that All Progressives Congress and President Muhammadu Buhari have succeeded in dividing the country more than ever before . “And it is unfortunate that anybody will expect that from somebody who was in the military and attained the position of a General. He was expected to  be a patriot and that he would base his judgment on what is the best for the majority of the Nigerian people. So, this independence anniversary will give a lot of Nigerians the opportunity to carry out deep reflections and see how to deal with APC and Buhari. I believe that, in the spirit of patriotism, when all Nigerians do that deep reflection, they are going to come out with something that will salvage this country.” Nigeria has made progress – Zamfara Govt The people of Zamfara State were also of the view that a lot of progress had been recorded by Nigeria in the past 58 years of her independence. Speaking with our correspondent in Gusau, the state capital, the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Abdullahi Mohammed, said Nigeria, at 58, had recorded considerable achievements from 1960 to date in all sectors of human endeavours. According to the SSG, a lot has been achieved, more especially, in roads construction, education, agriculture and health. Abdullahi said he was particularly impressed with the level of achievements recorded under the leadership of President Buhari, saying,  “It is worthy of celebrating, going by a lot of successes recorded under his regime in just a few years of his stewardship.” “We have had a lot of experiences from different leaders at different times but the way Buhari’s regime is fighting corruption is worthy of commendation and celebrating. In the last few years, we were in a state of uncertainty by security threat, threatening the corporate existence of the country. So, I am pretty sure that by the time President Buhari completes his tenure, it will be a different story,” he maintained. Also speaking on the 58th independence of Nigeria, the Chief of Staff, Government House, Gusau, Alhaji Abdullahi Abdulkareem, said, considering the rapid economic and political development recorded from 1960 to date, one would be left with no option than to believe that the country had really moved forward. Abdulkareem said the country had witnessed series of transformation in many sectors, stressing that “many universities were established, many roads were constructed, hospitals were built unlike before the independence, where only a few of such facilities were available.” 