…as activist urges govt to prohibit female genital mutilation practice  A couple and their four-year-old daughter have fled their home in Lagos following an alleged plan by their extended family members to perform a traditional circumcision rites on their only child. The Lagos-based couple, Mr. Afinni Abayomi Olubukola and Mrs. Afinni Folake Sikirat, who were said to have resisted the planned circumcision of their daughter, Afinni Inioluwa Esther, a practice which they feared as nothing but a wicked act of female genital mutilation, according to a neighbour, fled with their child to escape being forced to undergo the harrowing and damaging experience, which their extended family members insisted must be performed on the minor “as tradition demands.” The couple was said to have devised a clever means of escape by their sudden disappearance with their child after they had initially pretended to have yielded to the pressures from their extended family members to surrender their daughter for the traditional circumcision rite. “They man and his wife had to cleverly find a way to escape from this house with their daughter because their extended family members from their village were coming here always to pressurise them to bring their child for the circumcision rite. Suddenly, we just woke one day and they were nowhere to be found. Nobody knows their whereabouts up till now,” the neighbour of the Afinnis, who pleaded not to be identified, said. Both government at all levels and highly placed individuals have been campaigning against the practice of female genital mutilation in Nigeria. Between January and August this year, no fewer than ten couples and their children have reportedly fled their residence to escape pressure by extended family members to surrender their female children for the traditional circumcision rites. Only on Tuesday last week, an activist, Dr. Sunday Adepoju, at a well-attended press conference in Akure, Ondo State, condemned the practice of female genital mutilation, insisting that government should enact a law prohibiting such a practice under whatever guise. Adepoju said that appropriate punishment should be meted to anyone who encourage or participate in such a practice, which he described as “uncivilised and cruel.” In a two-page submission, the activist said that it was the civic responsibility of individuals to expose anyone or group of persons known to be planning or engaging in female genital mutilation. Across Africa, genital mutilation has in the recent past become an issue with the traditionalists engaging government in a battle of wits over the practice. 