Earlier today, eight suspected ritual killers, including a woman were paraded by the Nigeria Police Force after they were arrested with 11 human skulls in Ilorin, Kwara. The suspects identified as : Azeez Yakubu, principal suspect, Ahmed Yahaya, Abdulfatai Kadri ( Vigilante Commander), Aishat Yunisa, Lukman Saka, Abdulganiyu Bamidele, Soliu Ayinde and Abdulrasaq Babamle, were arrested by the special IGP Monitoring Unit. Azeez Yakub a.k.a Baba Muri (Principal Suspect) who is a notorious armed robber and have been arrested, charged to court and convicted to prison severally. This suspect now in Police custody has made confessional statement to the Police investigation Team, he confessed and admitted that one Abdulfatai Kadri a.k.a (Adedoyin), the vigilante commander in Adeta Zone, introduced him to the business and also supplies the human skulls and other body parts for him to sell. Eleven (11) Human skulls were recovered from his possession during police search on his residence. The principal suspect confessed that Abdulfatai Kadri has brought to him Twenty (20) human skulls that he exhumed from the Ilorin Community Central Burial ground situated after idl-praying ground in Ilorin, Kwara State.

He further admitted that Abdulfatai Kadri a.k.a (Adedoyin) usually brings in the human heads to him in batches of Four (4), six (6), Eight ( for safe keeping and usually collect them within a day or two, and also informed him of the personalities in Ilorin and other he usually supply the heads to.

Abdulrasaq Babamole was equally mentioned by the Principal suspect, Azeez Yakub to have bought one (1) human skull from him. Powder suspected to be grinded human bones was recovered in his possession. He has also confessed to the crime admitting his criminal role Aishat Yunisa a.k.a Iya Alagbo was mentioned by the principal suspect, Azeez Yakub to be a member of the gang who deals in selling of human body parts. During interrogation, she confessed and admitted to have supplied Two (2) human skulls she obtained from Azeez Yakub to one Ahmed Yahaya and Lukman Saka Ahmed Yahaya and Lukeman Saka were indicted in the confessional statement made by the Principal suspect, Azeez Yakub. They confessed to have bought two (2) human skulls from the principal suspect through Aishat Yunusa, grinded for their usage and rituals. Abdulfatai Kadri a.k.a (Adedoyin) is a vigilante Commander in Adeta Zone indicted by the Principal suspect to have introduced him to the business and also supplies the human skull and other body parts for him to sell. He is still being investigated on his criminal roles in the incident. Soliu Ayinde a.k.a Baba Fawasi – this suspect also in police custody confessed and admitted to be a member of the syndicate who receives human parts from both Abdulfatai Kadri a.k.a (Adedoyin) the Vigilante commander and Azeez Yakub the Principal suspect. In his possession was recovered human bones cut-off from the leg of one of their victims. He admitted to the Police investigators that the Principal suspect Azeez Yakub and Abdulfatai Kadri a.k.a (Adedoyin) are working together. At a time he requested for human skull from Azeez Yakub, in his presence, Azeez Yakub called Abdulfatai Kadri a.k.a (Adedoyin) to bring the human skull after collecting Fifteen Thousand Naira N15,000 from him.

Abdulganiyu Bamidele: He confessed and admitted to buying human skull from the principal suspect, Azeez Yakub and supply same to his friend one Kayode still at large.. 