Governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura of Nasarawa State has begun moves to placate all the All Progressives Congress aspirants who failed to secure tickets to contest for elective positions on the party’s platform in the 2019 general elections. The aspirants lost out during the recently conducted party primary elections by the APC in the state. Al- makura had last Wednesday summoned a meeting with all the aspirants from across the three senatorial zones of the state at the Shendam Road Government House with a view to bringing them together for the purpose of working for the party’s victory during the 2019 general elections. According to the governor, “Today’s meeting is designed specifically to bring together all our aspirants, who lost during the last primaries and also for us to put head together to ensure the victory of our party in the state and Nigeria in particular, especially as the 2019 electioneering period is almost around the corner.” Al-Makura, who expressed delight at the turn-out of all the aspirants at the meeting, also boasted that the APC would maintain her previous victory in Nasarawa State and Nigeria in the 2019 general
elections. “I am happy today and delighted as all aspirants turned up for this meeting despite the short notice given to them and I want to assure you that the APC would be victorious in both Nasarawa State and Nigeria in the 2019 general elections,” he said. Also speaking at the meeting, a senatorial aspirant, who lost to Governor Al-Makura during the primary,  Salihu Hussaini Egebgola, said the meeting was timely, adding that all the party aspirants who lost their bids in the primaries had resolved to come together to work for the progress of the party in
2019. “APC in Nasarawa State is one family and we have all resolved to work together and also to ensure President Buhari’s victory in 2019,” he said. Aspirants who also lost their bids to contest for the senatorial seats of both the northern and western senatorial zones of the state, Hon Mary
Owongolo and Hon. Emmanuel Bako, respectively, said that they had all resolved that all hands must be on the deck to ensure the victory of the party at all levels in
2019. Those at the meeting included the incumbent Senator of the Nasarawa west Senatorial District, Abdullahi Adamu, and the APC candidate for the Nasarawa North Senatorial District, Hon. Godiya Akwashiki, among other party chieftains from across the
state. 