It is not in his character to speak out most time on burning national issues even when others or some are down to earth, making waves with their utterances as they bare their mind on challenges of a given moment. For his cautious approach to issues, some have mistakenly or rightly adjudged the disposition of General Yakubu Gowon (rtd), a former Head of State, as a sign of weakness. At a point, some were of the view that his unusual silence on issues of national importance can no longer be taken as a golden silence. However of recent, Gowon, as a calculated general, came out of his closet and made bold his stand on the burning issue of the time – the Fulani herdsmen versus farmers clashes that have resulted in deaths, blood and sorrow. The attacks, according to him, have, over time, proved to be against one section of the Nigerian population and not clashes as widely projected. The former Head of state maintained that all strategies at addressing, the growing “terror attack” by Fulani herdsmen in the country must take into cognisance the “one sided” characteristic of the problem. “It cannot be regarded as conflict when defenseless citizens and communities are attacked, destroyed and annihilated at night in their sleep by heavily armed men, and such men almost always identified as Fulani herdsmen, not to mention the Miyetti Allah’s claim of responsibility of such killings and destructions and other promise of more of same,” Gowon said in Jos as contained in the September 2018 issue of the “The Light Bearer”, Nigeria’s foremost Christian newspaper published by the Church of Christ in Nations (COCIN), Plateau State. Speaking recently at a two-day summit of Northern Christian leaders on “Sustainable Peace and Security in Northern Nigeria as a Panacea for Development, The role of Christian Religious Leaders,” Gowon expressed fears that the attacks are particularly targeted at Christians. “The intensity and apparent selectiveness of these attacks have generated concern that they may be assuming religious connotations and declaration,” he said. The ex-president who was represented at the occasion by one-time military governor of Plateau State, Rear Admiral Samuel Atukum, called on government to end the attacks as they do not only lead to deaths but socio-economic breakdown of the country. Supporting this position, the former President of the Nigerian Catholic Bishops Conference, Bishop Ignatius Kaigama, regretted that Nigeria’s Northern region still grapples with underdevelopment due to rampant insecurity. Also speaking at the conference, the National President of the Christian Council of Nigeria (CCN), an affiliate of Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Rev. Dr. Benebo Fubara-Manuel, observed that the fight against insecurity was more crucial to development than the fight against corruption. Represented by the Secretary General of the body, Rev. Yusuf Wushishi, the Church leader said insecurity affects Nigeria’s rural populace more than corruption. Even with corruption, farmers in the past could go to their farms and sleep in peace,” but now “Even with the fight against corruption, rural people are daily killed and they can’t even go to weed their crops or harvest them,” he said. The Secretary to the Federal Government, Mr. Boss Mustapha; the Minister of Agriculture, Chief Audu Ogbe,  and that of Youths and Sports, Solomon Dalung, in their submissions opined that the failure of Christians to break out of their “siege mentality” is the main cause of injustice against them. The trio called on Christians to take active part in politics towards fostering an agenda that will turn around the fortunes of Nigeria for the better. Similarly, the Northern CAN Chairman, Rev. Dr. Yakubu Pam, said while critics are quick to blame government for failing to live up to its responsibilities to protect lives and properties of the people, Christians leaders must bring up their members and families in the fear of God for peace to
reign. According to Rev. Pam, “Most of the atrocities we have seen people committing these days against their fellow citizens of Nigeria at different communities, especially in crisis ridden communities in the North, is because these evil men have no fear of God in them. “ Gov. Simon Lalong of Plateau State in his own contribution highlighted efforts by his administration to foster peace in the state to include peace conferences and other activities through the state Peace Building Agency. 