Members of the APC in Eti-Osa Local Government staged a peaceful rally in support of their representatives at the House of Reps. Hon. Jide Akinloye to speak out on the need to return his mandate to him. Based on the Primary election result sheet, Hon. Akinloye won other contestants but he is yet to be declared winner in an election that is free and fair and supervised by Dr. Tola Kasali and INEC observers. According to Chief Rilwan Aleshinloye, Chairman Humble Prince Campaign Organisation on behalf of Leaders and members of Hon. Jide Akinloye (Humble Prince) Campaign Organisation, “We are gathered here today, Saturday 13th October, 2018 as “one big family” of All Progressives Congress in Eti-Osa Federal Constituency to Re-affirm our commitment and belief in the outcome of the Federal House of Representatives primary elections conducted on the 4th October 2018 at various ward within Eti-Osa Federal Constituency; won by Hon. Jide Akinloye as affirmed by the returning officer Dr. Tola Kasali and INEC observes……. the results is there for all to see”
“Our gathering today is to allay the fear of our party members who are here today on solidarity in respect of the outcome of the House of Representative primary election in Eti-Osa federal constituency. ”
“The primary election was conducted in accordance to the directive of the party national officers in line with the party’s guidelines and the primary was free, fair and credible. ”
“We congratulate ourselves and Hon. Jide Akinloye for his victory in the primary election. His experience and contributions to the development of Eti-Osa; a major reason for his victory”
“Our indefatigable National leader Ashiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a true democrat, a leader who always stand for truth and justice, the hope for the hopeless, on your mandate we stand” “We appeal to our faithful and committed card carrying members with P.V.C not to relent in your support for Hon. Jide Akinloye (Humble prince) President Buhari, our in-coming Governor, Hon. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, our distinguished senator, Chief Mrs Oluremi Tinubu and our House of Assembly members.” “Our target is three million votes for President Buhari and His Excellency Hon. Babajide Sanwo-Olu in Lagos State and Eti-osa is ready to go all out to give the highest number of votes in 2019 to APC as evident by the crowd here today who are with their permanent voter’s card. I hereby implore you all to raise your PVC.”   