 Zamfara State All Progressives Congress may be heading to a rock as a result of lingering crisis between Governor Abdul Aziz Yari Abubakar and his deputy, Malam Ibrahim Wallaka  Mohammed Liman. The duo, who had been in  a good working relationship since 2011 when they were elected as Governor and deputy Governor respectively, are now in a tug of war, as a result of Governor’s refusal to anoint the deputy to succeed him. The sour relationship started two weeks ago when Governor Yari appointed his finance commissioner, Alhaji Muktar Shehu Idris, as his successor, leaving his deputy Malam Wakkala with no position. Several meetings were said to have been held by the leadership of the party with the sole aim of reconciliation but the problem defied solution. The Deputy Governor, whose ambition to become the next governor of the state was thwarted by Governor Yari, has now joined other governorship aspirants of the party to fight against what they referred to as injustice. The seven governorship aspirants who called themselves as  G7 are now seriously challenging Governor Yari’s decision and are working in unison to make sure that the Governor changes his mind and allow one of them to be the next governor of the state. On his part,  Governor Yari had conclusively declared  that his decision was final and there was no going back, a situation which many political observers viewed as a serious mistake that could jeopardise the chances of the party to deliver the state in the next year’s general elections. Governor Yari maintained that his deputy was ungrateful, having served the state for 16 years as both the commissioner and deputy Governor. He however warned the so-called G7 to stop using the issue of insecurity as a weapon of blackmail against his government. “I am warning them to stop using insecurity issues as a blackmail against my government. I am particularly surprised how my  deputy could open his mouth and castigate my  government for insecurity failure. It is a shameless idea for someone who is the second in command in the government to say that the government has failed. “I also sympathise with the defense minister who is an indigene of the state to come out openly and say my government has failed in term of security,” said
Yari. The Governor therefore explained that he would deal ruthlessly with any person or group trying to cause confusion during next year’s general elections, adding that he would not tolerate nonsense from any quarter. Reacting to Governor’s warning., one of the governorship aspirants,  Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa, said they were ready to face Governor Yari
squarely. Reliable sources have revealed that Malam Wakkala and the other seven governorship aspirants are planning to dump APC and join the opposition PDP if the Governor insisted that he would not succumb to their pressure. The source further revealed that the PDP officials are currently in contact with the aggrieved persons who might defect to the party immediately after the APC’s primaries. 