Predictable in that most of his activities and utterances are not hurting and the policies of his administration human face inclined. However, he is full of surprises and this makes him unpredictable. He is neither here nor there and that is what keeps him going in the most security challenged state with its attendant complex politics. When it was two years to the end of his second four year tenure, people were expecting signs or indications of his likely successor, but there was no inclination whatsoever. Even when the whistle was blown by independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for commencement of political parties operations, the clue was still illusive. When the governorship time table for the gubernatorial party primaries was released, the story was still the same – dead silence on his likely successor. Then came the unprecedented floodgate of governorship aspirants of All Progressives Party (APC) to the Government House, Maiduguri. At the last count over 20 candidates emerged for the battle for the coveted office. Despite all these, the incumbent governor , Kashim Shettima, maintained a sordid silence on his possible successor, making anybody’s talk no talk as speculations of all sorts have no concrete foundation to hang on. Not even his presumed associates, friends or political opponents could make anything out of his mind or silence. As some of the aspirants were commissioners in his cabinet, Shettima,  about a fortnight to the party governorship primaries, dissolved his cabinet and sent all packing. Let it be said here that never so far in the history of Borno in particular and the nation in general has any political actor held the state or the people spell bound in curiosity, anticipation or waiting game. Besides, there has never been in the history of the nation where over 20 aspirants paid in full in a battle for a single seat. This makes this unique scenario not only interesting but a challenge of case study. It is this unusual political occurrence vis-a -vis the disposition of Kashim Shettima, the man at the centre of it all that made the APC governorship primaries in Borno State the nation’s attention. Because of the pedigree and antecedents of the aspirants, vested interests within and outside involved coupled with the large number of the candidates, nothing short of commotion or likely chaos was expected. However, in his characteristic of springing surprises and managing crisis, Borno State APC governorship primaries has been adjudged the best in the country – thanks to the ingenuity foresight and cunning skills of Governor Shettima. Commenting on the Borno State APC governorship primaries, the Coalition of Civil Societies and Media Executives for Good Governance in Nigeria applauded the All Progressives Congress for the orderly conduct of the election. The Coalition’s President, Omooba Aigbegbele, in a statement in Lagos, said a nationwide assessment of governorship primary elections of various political parties indicated that “APC’s governorship primary in Borno State was the most organized and credible as its standard compares with presidential primary elections in Abuja. He said the Borno APC governorship primary was particularly significant because of the interest generated by the exercise that paraded 21 aspirants, which, he said, made his group to monitor the processes from accreditation of delegates to the declaration of a winner. “The APC governorship primary election in Borno State was one of the most highly organised and credible going by nationwide assessments of governorship primary elections by various political parties in Nigeria. “Borno State recorded as many as 21 APC governorship aspirants, and because of that, we expected a chaotic situation. That is why we came here in Maiduguri to monitor the process,” the release said. Aigbegbele, who is also the Executive Secretary, Citizens Watch Nigeria, said his group was impressed with the exercise which produced Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum, a former Commissioner of Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Resettlement, as winner. The man who made peace of the whole exercise to the admiration of all is Kashim Shettima, who, in a statement in Maiduguri, explained in details his painstaking efforts as the state Governor and the leader of the party in the state at arriving at the ultimate choice of the party flag bearer. It would be recalled that at the primaries, the winner, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum, scored 4,432 votes to beat Idris Amman Durkwa, who pulled 114 votes. Kashim Imam scored 20 votes, Mustapha Baba Shehuri 1, Ambassador Ahmed Jidda 1, Muhammed Magira Atom 1, Gambo Lawan 2, Umar Alkali (NASCO) 0, Abba Jato 0, Umara Kumaila 0, while 317 votes were invalid. Before the exercise, 10 of the aspirants withdrew and expressed support to Professor Zulum. 