  Mr Chris Isiguzo, South East Bureau Chief of ThisDay Newspaper has emerged the new National President of Nigeria Union of Journalists, NUJ, at the 2018 delegates’ conference in Abeokuta-Ogun State. Isiguzo polled 346 votes to defeat the incumbent President, Waheed Odusile, who polled 329 votes. Announcing the results at the June 12 Cultural Centre in Abeokuta, the Returning Officer from Nigeria Labour Congress, Benson Upah, commended the peaceful conduct of all journalists at the conference. The keenly contested election also had Bamidele Atunbi with 101 votes, Abiodun Olalere with 56 votes, Uzaka Abraham got 30 votes, Jacob Edi had 16 votes, while Aladenika Adelegan had 9 votes. Speaking after his swearing in, Isiguzo said that the major focus of his administration would be welfare of Nigerian journalists as well as integrity of the union. “I assure you that the time to rescue the union has started; you will be proud of us. We won’t disappoint you. We will unveil our programme of actions in the coming days. The days you work and you will not receive your salary are gone.” All past leaders and delegates spoken to by our Correspondent advised the new president to bring back integrity into the professional body by doing justice to all members, most especially, the raging NAWOJ Housing fraud in Lagos Council. Meanwhile, the former governor of Abia State and the publisher of The Sun and New Telegraph newspapers, Orji Kalu, has congratulated Mr Isiguzo, the newly-elected President of NUJ. Kalu also extolled the virtues of the new president. In a statement issued by Kalu’s Special Adviser, Kunle Oyewumi, stressed that the ethics of the media profession must be upheld by journalists for the sake of building a just and decent society. “The election of Comrade Chris Isiguzo as the new President of the Nigeria Union of Journalists did not come to me and many others as a surprise, following his antecedents as Vice President of NUJ, South East, Zone. “The new helmsman has the intellectual and leadership capacity to steer the affairs of the body. “I am convinced that Mr Isiguzo, alongside other executives of NUJ, will live up to expectations by taking the professional body to greater heights. “The media are key to democracy and as we approach the 2019 general elections journalists must be objective, fair and accurate in the discharge of their professional duties. “We will continue to work together as stakeholders in the media industry to sustain the place of journalism in the global space.” While urging the new executives to run a participatory leadership style, Kalu congratulated members of the NUJ for a successful conference. He also commended the outgoing President of NUJ, Mr Waheed Odusile, for his contributions to the development of the journalism profession while in office.  