… tourney hots up in Lagos No fewer than fifteen prospective coaches were put through the basic rudiments of wheelchair tennis coaching as the 2018 national ranking tournament began at the National Stadium, Lagos. The participants include eight players who are at the twilight of their careers and are set to make a transition into coaching. Among the wheelchair tennis players that took part in the programme which was in theory and practical sessions are Lateef Shodipo, Alex Adewale, Mohammed Audu, Stephen Amodu, Oluwadamilare Adewale and Tosin Dawodu – a former women national champion. Others are James Atobong, Nosakhare Esorae, Evans Omoruyi, Abdulmalik Kabir and Felix Oyadinrin are among the non-wheelchair tennis coaches that took part in the programme which had Nigeria’s head coach Frank Tarmena and Nelson Ine as Instructors. Shodipo, the Nigerian wheelchair tennis captain, expressed optimism that the game will develop rapidly due to growing list of special athletes that are coming into the game. He pointed that some of the players are nearing the end of their playing days and as such it’s important they go into coaching to help raise new set of players to lead country’s quest for honour at the international stage. Newly-appointed Wheelchair Tennis Secretary-General, Anthony Idaye, confirmed the participation of at least six states which includes Lagos, Ogun, Edo, Delta, Kwara, Imo and Rivers; while a few others are still expected. The coaching clinic preceded the ranking tournament which will feature about 120 players from various parts of the
country. The men’s draw for the tournament which is bankrolled by Nigeria Tennis Federation president, Ifedayo Akindoju, will be round of 32 for men; the same for the women’s category. Currently, Alex Adewale is the prime seed for the male while Kafayat Omisore tops the women’s ranking. Adewale represented Nigeria at the 2012 London Olympics and has won the last six editions of the Central Bank of Nigeria Open but is expected to be given fierce challenge by the likes of Wasiu Yusuf, Lateef Shodipo and Jude Uwazie while Omisore will have Tosin Dawodu and Chituru Nwaozuzu among her toughest challengers for the top placement. Tarmena stressed that beyond The Points at stake, the tourney will put Nigeria in good stead ahead of upcoming international tournaments which include the African Championship billed for February 2019 in Ghana. He lamented Nigeria’s inability to consolidate on its dominance of Africa which now sees South Africa, Egypt, Morocco, Tunisia and Kenya ranked higher on the continent but expressed optimism that Nigeria would soon be reclaiming its enviable position in the game. Wheelchair tennis will for the first time be part of the upcoming National Sports Festival in Abuja. 