Some die-hard supporters of the ruling All Progressives Congress in Osun State fled their homes for fear of being attacked after the results of the September 27th governorship supplementary election results were announced, our correspondent has learnt. Also, a traditional ruler in one of the major towns in the state was said to have fled his palace to a safe haven in Osogbo, capital of the state, after the governorship election held on Saturday, September 22 was declared inconclusive by the Independent National Electoral Commission. The monarch (names withheld) was said to have been a staunch supporter of the APC.  It was gathered that the Oba was anxious after the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, Senator Ademola Adeleke, shot to the lead ahead of APC’s Alhaji Gboyega oyetola in the keenly contested election. Adeleke had recorded 323 margin to defeat APC’s Oyetola, but the INEC Returning officer, who is also the Vice Chancellor, Federal University of Technology, Akure, Prof. Joseph Fuwape, said the margin was low and declared the poll inconclusive. He also announced a rerun in the seven polling units on September 27th. The traditional ruler was said to have immediately driven out of his palace for fear of being mocked by his subjects, who are faithful to the PDP in the town. The said monarch spent four days outside his palace before summoning courage to return a day to the supplementary election. The Point gathered that some popular APC supporters residing in the country home of the PDP candidate went into hiding in neighbouring towns for fear of being attacked by angry supporters of PDP, which lost the governorship poll to the APC in controversial circumstances. INEC had on Friday declared Oyetola, the candidate of the APC, winner of the Osun State governorship election. INEC Returning officer declared Oyetola winner of the election and returned him as the governor-elect after about 13 hours of sorting and declaration of results from across the wards in the state. Fuwape announced that Oyetola polled 255,505 votes to defeat Adeleke, who got 255, 023 votes. INEC declared Oyetola winner despite protests and allegations of deductions of votes of the PDP and violence at polling units made by the PDP party agent, Mr. Dele Adeleke. Voters had thronged the four local government councils of Osogbo, Orolu, Ife North and Ife South to participate in the rerun election, but sporadic shootings, violence and vote buying marred the process. The observer missions of the US, UK and EU, who were on ground to monitor the electoral process, said they witnessed “incidents of interference and intimidation of voters.” US Consul General, John Bray, told journalists in Osogbo that the missions were concerned about the reports. He said they would consult relevant stakeholders to determine the facts. He said, “The missions of the United States, European Union and the United Kingdom observed voting at polling stations in Osun  today (Thursday). “We witnessed what appeared to be incidents of interference and intimidation of voters and have reports of harassment of party monitors, journalists and domestic observers. “We are very concerned by these reports and we will be checking with stakeholders to determine the facts. We call on all stakeholders to remain calm.” Our correspondent reported that violence marred the election in at least four of the seven polling units, where the rerun held. There were incidents of gunshots in a polling unit in Osogbo Local Government Area, after suspected thugs had invaded to disrupt the exercise. Also, the Centre for Democracy and Development and other observers have faulted the credibility of the election. Even journalists were not spared in the wake of the violence as some of them were attacked and seriously injured by suspected political thugs for covering the election. 