Nigeria's community of entrepreneurs has been tasked to make contributions to the well-being of motherless children a compulsory aspect of their Corporate Social Responsibility portfolio. The Chairman of Anosyke Group of Companies, a leading oil services firm in West Africa, Mr. Ifeanyi Anosike, gave this admonition when he led friends, family members and staff of the company to present gift items to the Friends of Jesus Orphanage Home in Badore, Ajah, Lagos. Speaking during the presentation of the items, which included foodstuff, beverages and toiletries, Anosike said, "While it is compulsory that all corporate bodies must do CSR, it should even be made more compulsory that visits to orphanage homes to refresh the motherless children be included in the
menu. "If all the corporate bodies in Nigeria do this, at least once in a year, it will relieve religious bodies and other well-spirited Nigerians that raised the Homes.” Anosike added that he had institutionalised the practice of visiting the motherless babies' homes (one in Lagos and the other outside the state) to mark his birthday every October 1, which coincides with the country's Independence Day Anniversary. "The three motherless babies' homes are located respectively in Enugu, where I was born; Warri, where I grew up; and Lagos, where I live," he said. The Anosyke boss on the occasion, also enjoined Nigerian youths to imbibe the culture of self-reliance, considering the large population of educated youths as against available opportunities. He urged them to key into the various youth empowerment schemes initiated by the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, "and develop from there." Responding, the leader of the orphanage home, owned by the Friends of Jesus Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos, Rev Sister Jobita Obiakor, applauded the nice gesture of the Anosyke Group and its chairman. She encouraged more people to visit orphanages and refresh the children living in them. "Definitely, we can't pay you back for all these gift items but our prayers and those of the children will always follow you," she said. 