With the blowing of the whistle by the Independent National Electoral Commission for the commencement of political party activities, politics is here in full force. Like the bottled wine that comes out with a  rush when opened, the activities of the political parties sprang up with the speed of a meteor. Political parties have issued guidelines to prospective contestants into various offices. No doubt, the major parties are making good harvest from the sale of forms to their respective candidates or contestants into various positions. In Borno State, the governorship position of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has recorded over 20 prospective aspirants. This brings to the party a whopping sum of over half a billion naira. The same applies to some other parties but in a lesser degree. Already, almost all the candidates screened for various positions by the parties are on the streets or in contact with the people who would sail them through during the primaries of the political parties concerned. Bill boards with photographs of aspirants have sprung up in hundreds while public buildings and any empty space has been taken over by the pictures of the aspirants. Indeed, it is a good time for the printers making quick business and for party supporters especially the unemployed youths who are for now blessed with manna, no matter how little. For now, in Borno, politics has given slight leverage or diversion to the talks of Boko Haram, though the people are still apprehensive, more so, with the resurgence of the insurgency of recent in some parts of the state, an action least expected as the people were of the belief that this madness was coming to an end. However, a disturbing emerging phenomenon is the behaviour of supporters of some of the aspirants, especially the youths carrying offensive weapons to the consternation or surprise of members of the public. Besides, one observes the unruly behaviour of some of the youths smoking Indian hemp or cannabis. publicly . In some instances, one notes traces of violence displayed by some of the youths. There was a reported case where in one of the governorship aspirants residence, some youths tried to force opened the gate already manned by some policemen and this led to conflict between the boys and the security personnel who tried to prevent their entry. The unrelenting boys forcefully over powered the security personnel gaining entry. However, the police replied using tear gas to disperse the boys and in the process, the innocent ones around got the doze of the tear gas they never bargained for. Apart from carrying or bearing these weapons while on a campaign trail of the aspirant or aspirants, one equally notes the same disposition of the affected youths in some of the offices of the politicians. So far, there has not been reported case of any violence between the supporters of an aspirant or the other, but there is need for caution. It is therefore hearty or happy to note that the state commissioner of police, Damian Chukwu, is keeping his eyes wide opened and ears to the ground as he came out recently sounding warning to the supporters of the aspirants, especially those carrying offensive weapons to disarm or face the wrath of the police. The police boss, while condemning the culprits in this wise, stated that they will have no place to hide as his men will fish them out if they persist in this unholy act. Chukwu appealed to the aspirants not only to plead with their supporters to maintain peace and orderliness but as well ensure that no group of theirs is allowed to carry weapons that will endanger  public peace and lives of the people. The warning of the police boss is timely. If not nipped in the bud, the situation could lead to serious conflict among supporters of political parties . The ensuing bloodshed might lead to further conflagration provoking disorder and possible bloody scenario. Borno cannot afford this uncalled for luxury, neither can it bear a diversion from the present war against the insurgency. The state which is the epicentre of the insurgency has suffered deaths, sorrow and blood. Besides, the daily and bloody politics of the first and second republic especially in the state should never be allowed to repeat itself in this present dispensation. Before we forget, here is one of the reminders of the state inglorious past with regards political violence which must not be allowed to repeat itself. This particular incident has to do with the Bembem village political clash between the supporters of the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) and that of Great Nigeria Peoples Party (GNPP) and the report of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry on this. Parts of the findings of the report read: “According to the supporters of both parties, the slogan “Adachi” of the GNPP and “Aminci” of the NPN were abusive and repulsive words, or taken as such, and neither side at Bembem on the fateful day took kindly to them….what is said of Bembem at that point in time could be said so far the whole state.” The commission continued, “Daggers-drawn animosity and hostility permeated the political arena in the state; the political situation was tense; security of the state was unstable. Riots, clashes, ambush, threats to life, killings and destruction of properties were rampant.” Borno can’t afford this any longer. 