  … as APC postpone its governorship primary  Adebutu emerges as PDP gov candidate … To pick deputy from Ogun west SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA The People’s Democratic Party has held parallel primaries for governorship aspirants in Ogun State at different locations in Abeokuta, the state capital, as the All Progressive Congress, APC, postponed its own gubernatorial primary which was scheduled to hold yesterday. The Sikirulai Ogundele faction of the party which was recognized by the National leadership of the PDP, held its own primary on Sunday at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library while the Bayo Dayo faction held its own at the party’s secretariat located along Oke-Mosan. The Ogundele’s faction of the PDP had the federal lawmaker representing Remo Federal Constituency, Hon. Ladi Adebutu as the winner after about 2,369 delegates unanimously adopted him in an open secret ballot system. While the Dayo led faction loyal to the Senator representing Ogun East Senatorial District, Buruji Kashamu had Alhaji Wole Adeyanju stepping down for Shittu who was also unanimously adopted by the delegates of the party in an open secret ballot system. The PDP’s Electoral Committee chairman, Capt. Mike Williams Hart who announced Adebutu as the governorship flag bearer of the party said that the end time had come for APC rule in the state. Speaking, Hon. Adebutu who was aspiring for governor from ward 4  Odogbolu local government, said that it is high time PDP take over power from APC  in the state, noting the people of the state are tired of Governor Ibikunle Amosun’ government. He said that the leadership of the party in the state will pick his running mate whom he said might be a woman from Ogun west senatorial district under the age of 40. Adebutu boasted that PDP would oust APC in the 2019 governorship election.  “Electricity is the engine room of modern development and to avoid epileptic power supply. We will have electricity 24 hours and devoid of mosquitoes and malaria”. “There is no internal roads in Ijebu Ode and 14 other local government in Ogun, they have killed the local government system. The highest quality of road across the state is not in the local government.” The State Chairman, Ogundele however maintained that the adoption of Adebutu was the beginning of the end for APC-led administration of Amosun in the state. 