 Though section 39 of the Nigerian constitution guarantees the freedom of expression, including the freedom to hold personal opinions and to receive and impart ideas and information, there is no doubt that most Nigerian politicians have abused this section of the constitution, making the citizenry to start questioning their integrity. Careful observations by The Point have revealed that Nigerian political leaders have in several ways disparaged their integrity in the name of their interest or personal ambitions by speaking from both sides of their mouth. For instance, most of the political personalities now parading themselves as friends of  the Muhammadu Buhari administration had earlier condemned the president. But now, they sing his praises because they have been given  one official appointment or the other and have been given some favours. Festus Keyamo (SAN) There is no doubt that Nigerians are currently asking the Senior Advocate, Festus Keyamo, questions on his stand and position on the performance of the current administration. Keyamo, who was known to be a human rights lawyer, had, in the past, condemned the administration of President Buhari, especially on the poor performance in office, saying Nigerians have been seriously disappointed by his government. For instance, in an exclusive interview with The Point in 2017, the legal luminary laid emphasis on poor performance of the economic team of President  Buhari which he said had not been impressive. Speaking on the proposed N5,000 which the administration intended to give to the poor then, Keyamo had said: “For me, that will not help the poor in this country. Instead, I would have preferred that jobs are created for these poor people; not that money is given to them. If you want to empower people, it is better to get them jobs through which they can make their money and earn themselves a good living; not that you give them money today and tomorrow. What if the money is no longer there to give them? But instead, if jobs are created for this people, it will give them hopes, life and even for their children because through it, some of them will sponsor their children to school and they will get something meaningful out of life. So, for me, I believe creating jobs for these people is far better than giving them N5,000 stipend on monthly basis. Though I am not against it, it’s a good development; government should give priority to job creation than the money they are giving to the poor as a means of ending poverty in this country.” On the need for President Buhari’s team to be reshuffled, Keyamo also said: “I agree entirely that President Muhammadu Buhari’s cabinet should be reshuffled. He needs to choose some new people to work with him in his cabinet, especially when it comes to the issue of the economy.” But today, the legal luminary has been made the spokesperson of the Buhari’s campaign team for re-election and has begun to sing the praises of the president whom he had earlier condemned. Godswill Akpabio Another political bigwig with very glaring issue relating to the battle for survival in the political landscape is Senator Godswill Akpabio. Akpabio,  being a former senate minority leader, had made several counter moves against the All Progressives Congress as an opposition member of the Peoples Democratic Party and had severally condemned APC on policies and moves. But the former Senate Minority leader who has since defected to APC is now taking a swipe at the PDP, the party which he had supported, until recently. He is now expressing admiration and support for the administration of President Buhari in eradicating poverty and fighting corruption. “I am joining the APC to stabilise the government and to assist the government to create employment opportunities for Nigerians so that we can fight the twin brother to corruption, which is poverty. “Poverty creates corruption and corruption deepens poverty, so we need to fight the two together. And that is one of the things I find attractive with the APC and believe me, with my people in Akwa Ibom State, with my presence in the APC, my people in South South have now seen the light and they say APC is the party to vote for come 2019,” he was quoted to have said while announcing his defection to the ruling APC from PDP. Musiliu Obanikoro Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, who is now a chieftain of APC, was a strong enemy of the ruling party for quite some time, starting from when he fought assiduously to win Lagos State from the ruling party. He was also noted for several moves against the opposition while he was the defence minister of state. In 2014, ahead of the Ekiti State governorship election, Obanikoro described APC as a ‘disoriented’ party. Obanikoro, who was reacting to an allegation of leading a PDP plot to manipulate the then Ekiti election, had said: “The allegations by the APC, through its newly selected Chairman, Chief,  Odigie Oyegun are not only callous and utterly disingenuous but clearly the desperate antics of a drowning man clutching at dry straws. Chief Odigie has his hands full struggling to steer the ship of a disoriented, disorganised and sinking APC.” But to the surprise od many Nigerians, Obanikoro suddenly turned to an APC loyalist who is now promising President Buhari victory in 2019. Recall that the former Defence minister of state was accused by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for alleged corruption amounting to N4.68 billion and accused of rigging elections in Ekiti state for the PDP in 2014. Bola Tinubu Despite his well respected political sagacity, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu was also found on this list. Now that Atiku Abubakar, the PDP presidential candidate is the major threat to his party’s bid to return to power in 2019, Tinubu and APC now believe that Atiku does not possess what it takes to rule the country. Meanwhile, in 2017, the APC national leader had told Nigerians that the country needed Atiku to be more meaningful. In his statement to celebrate Atiku’s birthday then, Tinubu had said:  “I write to felicitate with you on the attainment of the proverbial age of three scores and ten, 70. Your life has been a life of service to your people, your country and the causes you believe in. Nigeria has been well-served by your stewardship and leadership. Your steadfastness in walking the democratic path sets you apart as a leader with substance. “Do not relent because Nigeria needs you and others like you to continue to make life more meaningful. We must continue to explore common grounds towards promoting the common good.” Dino Melaye Another politician whose integrity is perceived to be questionable even as he is claiming to be a democrat is Senator Dino Melaye. Melaye, at the initial stage of Buhari’s government, was an advocate of the ruling party until recently that things started falling apart for him and others in the party. This eventually led to his defection to the opposition PDP. And since his defection, he has been found painting his former party in negative colour. Recently, the lawmaker representing Kogi West Senatorial District,  took a swipe at the ruling APC for failing to meet the expectations of Nigerians, many of whom, he said, defied the odds to vote for  Buhari as Nigeria’s President in the 2015 general elections. “If you speak the truth, you die. If you lie, you die. I, Dino Melaye has decided to speak the truth and die. The APC government has become Public Complaint Commission. I say this without fear or favour. We have more complains in the APC and even in the Presidency than service rendered. We cannot as a people continue like this. The President said two days ago we should all embrace peace but I want to say without fear or favour that there can be no peace without justice. There is hunger in the land, there is poverty in the land, and there is unemployment in the land. A lot of decision has not been taken; yet we say we want peace. The primary objective of government is the security and welfare of the people. There is no security, there is no welfare,” he said. Atiku Abubarkar Despite the fact that some Nigerians are currently rooting for the former Vice president Atiku Abubakar as the next president of the country, political pundits have been asking various questions relating to his political ideology. Atiku, without doubt, enjoyed his defection than any other politician in Nigeria. Likewise, he was found to have spoken against political parties in the other camp at one time or the other. For instance, while crossing to APC from PDP in 2014, the former vice president condemned PDP for several reasons while praising APC. “It is sad that all the sectors in the country are dangerously drifting and not working as expected. We need to act urgently to rescue the nation. What  is it that is right in Nigeria at the moment? Is it education, security, aviation or health? The onus is on me as a statesman to offer my services for our country and salvage it. “If we all agreed that things are not right, what is next to do is how to remedy the situation. APC is ready to offer leadership and direction to move Nigeria forward. We are ready to rescue Nigeria from collapse. This is achievable  with the support of Nigerians”, Atiku had said in 2014. But in his current bid to become the next president of Nigeria under the umbrella of PDP, the former APC stalwart is now hitting back at the party which he was shielding at a point in time. In one of his statements where he condemned APC, Atiku had said that the All Progressives Congress did not have the requisite experience and capacity to adequately manage the affairs of the country. “I think the people of Nigeria need to sit down and evaluate APC and PDP. There is nothing about APC,” he was quoted to have said. Meanwhile, during his defection to PDP, the former Vice President, said that his resignation from APC was largely influenced by the impunity, arbitrariness and unconstitutionality in the APC. Atiku added that “injustice and failure to abide by its own constitution, which had dogged the then PDP, have now been replicated in the APC”. According to Atiku, “A party that does not take the youth into account is a dying party. The future belongs to young people. I admit that I and others who accepted the invitation to join the APC were eager to make positive changes for our country that we fell for a mirage. Can you blame us for wanting to put a speedy end to the sufferings of the masses of our people?” Following this development, concerned Nigerians now believe that most politicians in the country have thrown their integrity to the marines for their selfish ambition. Most Reverend Olusina Fape is the Archbishop of the Ecclesiastical Province of Lagos. He said most Nigerian politicians are mere pretenders without integrity. “Many politicians today are mere chameleons and fair weather politicians. It is very sad for somebody to have been part of an administration or government for 16 years and because he has lost out to another political party in election, to now be describing his former political party as corrupt, reckless or irresponsible. “How come that they have quickly forgotten that they were part of the corruption, recklessness and irresponsibility of past administrations? “It is only in Nigeria this can happen, where people have no sense of shame and are only out for personal monetary gain and not to serve the overall good of their country. “Because of lack of clear political ideology, that is why some politicians today who are considered as rogues, corrupt and wanted for the evils they have done in one party quickly run to another party, ” he said. The cleric added: “I pity many of our politicians who have wasted the destiny of this nation, thinking that they are clever, jumping from one political party to another, claiming they are on a rescue mission; when in actual fact, they are only on a mission of self-survival and relevance. “They are not clever. Except they ask for forgiveness, they will suffer the consequences of their wrongdoings against this nation together with their upcoming
generations.” Meanwhile, a senior advocate, Oyinkansola Ajayi, said, Nigerian politicians lack the interest of the nation at heart, thereby taking decision on personal interest and decision irrespective of what it will cost them or the country. “Most of the politicians in Nigeria are selfish. They take decision based on their personal interest not national interest. That is why you see them here today, another place tomorrow, and all these are rubbing on their integrity and also affecting our democracy,” Ajayi
said. 