Nigeria failed to achieve its target of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) for the 15 years they lasted despite being key development tools. The Federal Government had in 2017 through the Minister of Budget and National Planning ,Senator Udoma Udoma, blamed the country ‘s failure in achieving the MDGs on lack of political will to implement policies. To avoid a repeat  in the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and social work professionals in the country, have urged the National Assembly, to expedite work on the Council of Social Work Bill before it, by ensuring its speedy passage. The bill, which is seeking the establishment of Council of Social Work in the country, was introduced by stakeholders in social work sector, with the aim of playing regulatory functions such as licensing, certification, registration for social workers practice in Nigeria, including regulating the activities and conducts of certified social workers in public and private sectors. According to UNICEF and social work professionals, when passed, the bill will address many social problems facing the country and also assist in achieving the SDGs. President Muhammadu Buhari withheld assent to the bill after its earlier passage by the senate due to lack of clarity over the scope of the profession of social
work. Speaking at a media dialogue on the Social Work Professionalization Bill in Enugu recently, UNICEF’s Child Protection Specialist, Abuja, Maryam Enyiazu, said there was an urgent need for a council to be established, if professionalism is to be maintained in the practice of social work in Nigeria as well as proper regulation of the
profession. The media dialogue was organised by UNICEF to acquaint journalists with the knowledge of social welfare and social work professionalization bill with a view of raising more awareness on the bill in order to ensure its speedy passage by
NASS. Enyiazu affirmed that professional social workers have crucial roles to play in achieving the SDGs, adding that their roles cut across all sectors of social development, such as education, health, child protection, and social protection. She maintained that the role of social workers in achieving Nigeria’s SDGs cannot be over-emphasized. “The SDGs outline strategies for countries to end poverty. Improve the lives of children and families by addressing health, education, justice, migration and protection from violence .By committing to achieving the SDGs by 2030, UN member states affirm the fundamental rights of children to be protected from all forms of violence, abuse or exploitation. These goals cannot be achieved without a strong and locally-based social service workforce,” she
explained Social workers in the country under the umbrella of Nigeria Association of Social Workers (NASOW) who attended the media dialogue, also appealed to the senate leadership not to delay any more in the passage of the bill. The association reminded NASS that the establishment of the council would ensure that those taking care of the most vulnerable groups such as women, children, people living with disabilities, youth, destitute, elderly, widows, IDPs, refugees, among others, would be adequately protected . Also, Director, Social Welfare Department, Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, Temitope Bamgboye, who was represented by an Assistant Director in the ministry, Mr. Ben Okwesa, however, expressed hope that the Senate will pass the bill after addressing the grey areas which he said, has to do largely with lack of proper understanding of what social work profession
entails . For Professor Alamveabee Idyorough , a Professor of Sociology and Social Work, Federal University, Lafia, Nasarawa State, every profession like law, medicine, engineering ,has a specialized body of knowledge so also does social
work. 