 SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA  Former Speaker of Ogun State, Rt. Hon. Titi Oseni-Gomez has been declared the winner of the African Democratic Congress, ADC’s primary election for the Ogun Central Senatorial District for the 2019 elections. The Returning Officer, Alhaji Fatai Akinbade who made this known at the party secretariat located at Agbeloba, Abeokuta also declared Hon. Babatunde Ogunola as the candidate for the Ogun West Senatorial District. Akinbade said; “By the power as the chief returning officer of the Ogun State primary, I hereby declare as follow that Mrs Titi Oseni has been elected as our candidate for the Ogun Central Senatorial district and the second one is Ogun West which was returned by affirmation is Hon. Babatunde Ogunola.” Speaking on her emergence as the Ogun Central candidate of ADC, Oseni-Gomez said that she was not afraid to contest with the incumbent governor of the state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun who is also vying for the same senatorial seat under the platform of the All Progressive Party. The former speaker said that if elected as the Ogun Central Senator, she would bring developmental projects to her district which would reduce the suffering of the people. She said; “I am not afraid to contest with Governor Ibikunle Amosun, I represented the people and I was a Speaker in the State House of Assembly, the people can make comparison and our people should get their PVC and make the right choice.” Also speaking, Ogunola said that with his experience in politics, the people of Ogun West would witness a new development of the district if elected to represent them at the National Assembly. Others who emerged as the House of Representative candidates included: Hon Olusina Ogundimu for Abeokuta South Federal Constituency; Mr. Omoleye Olabode for Obafemi Owode, Abeokuta North and Odeda Federal Constituency. For Ifo, Ewekoro Federal Constituency, Mrs Ayisatu Alowonle and for Ado/Odo Federal Constituency, Mr Babatunde Akinboyede, Imeko Afon, Yewa North Federal Constituency, Mr Aremu Jimoh Olaifa and Ijebu North, Ijebu East and Ogunwater side Federal Constituency, Mr.  Olamide Osinowo. 