SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA. The Ogun State Chapter of the African Democratic Congress has picked Mrs Olukemi Okeowo-Bolade as the running mate of its gubernatorial candidate, Prince Gboyega Isiaka ahead of the 2019 election. Okeowo-Bolade, who was announced as the party’s deputy in the state by Isiaka, promised to mobilize women in the state to make sure that the party takes over power from the ruling All Progressive Congress in the state. The former Senior Special Assistant to the incumbent governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, who hails from Ogbogbo in Ijebu North East, however solicited the support of the women in the state to make her dream and that of Isiaka a reality in the forthcoming election. She said “I want to thank everybody and our father (Gbolade Osinowo). I will also like to extend my gratitude to Chief Olusegun Obasanjo. Thanks to our Excellency, my Oga (Gboyega Isiaka) my brother and he is now my father too because I am now part of his family. I pray that God will lead us to Okemosan come May 2019. And I also need the women support because I can’t do it alone.” Isiaka expressed satisfaction over the choice of Okeowo-Bolade by the party as his running mate, saying that the party had chosen the right person for the position of the deputy governor. The party’s gubernatorial candidate maintained that with Okeowo-Bolade’s wealth of experience in politics, having her as the running mate would add value to his victory at the poll in the next election. He said; “We were looking at the person with right character, experience and right exposure and after consultation, I have hand in picking my deputy candidate and she is Chief Mrs Olukemi Okeowo-Bolade. I believe and am convinced that we have the right person that will add value to this election and to the people of Ogun State.” On his own part, the State Chairman of the party, Dr. Gbolade Osinowo stated that the choice of Okeowo-Bolade was a good combination of the candidates who share the same quality of leadership to make the state better for the citizens. Osinowo said “She is a consummate politician, a grass roots mobilizer, somebody who has paid her dues, she has the experience and has demonstrated that she is of the same quality with the gubernatorial candidate.” 