Two men, Olukayode Falana and Godwin Eyo, were recently arraigned before an Ota Magistrates’ Court in Ogun State over alleged breach of peace. The accused, Falana,  24, and Eyo, 23, whose addresses were not disclosed, are now facing a three-count charge of conspiracy, membership of an unlawful society and breach of peace. The Prosecutor, Sgt. Abdulkareem Mustapha, told the court that the accused and others still at large, committed the offences on September 28 at about 10.00 a. m. at Ogba Ayo in Ota. Mustapha said that the accused and their accomplices conspired to conduct themselves in a manner likely to cause a breach of the peace by using dangerous weapons to threaten residents of the community. He also alleged that the accused persons belonged to an unlawful society called the Aiye Confraternity. Mustapha said that the offences contravened Sections 5, 249 (d) and 516 of the Criminal Code Vol. 1, Laws of Ogun State, 2006. The accused persons, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge. In a related development, a 21-year-old man, John Daniel, was on Friday brought before an Ota Magistrates' Court in Ogun State for allegedly stealing an Elemax generating set and other valuable items worth N430,000. Daniel, of no fixed address, is facing a two-count charge of stealing and conspiracy. The Prosecutor, Sgt. Chudu Gbesi, told the court that the accused and others still at large, committed the offences on September 25 at about 2.20 p. m. at Kajola Iboro Village, Atan, Ota. Gbesi said that the accused and his accomplices conspired to steal the Elemax generator and other valuable items worth N430,000 "The accused and his accomplices were caught in the act of committing the offence by the neighbours and handed over to the police," he said. He said that the offences contravened Sections 390 and 516 of the Criminal Code, Vol. 1, Laws of Ogun, 2006. The accused, however, pleaded not guilty to the
charge. The Chief Magistrate, Mr. Mathew Akinyemi, and Senior Magistrate G. E. Akan, granted them bail in the sum of N200, 000 each with two sureties each in like sum. The sureties, according to the magistrates, must reside within the courts’ jurisdiction and be gainfully employed with evidence of tax payment to the Ogun State Government. The case was adjourned till December 12 and 13, respectively, for further hearing. 