……. As Shaibu prepares to  lead Insurance attack against 3SC Edo football fans, supporters and players of Bendel Insurance Football Club of Benin have been advised against any behaviour or conduct capable of jeopardising the chances of the club to have outright win over their arch rivals, Shooting Stars of Ibadan, next week. Chairman of the club and Deputy Governor of Edo State ,Rt Hon Comrade Philip Shaibu and the chief coach, Baldwin Bazuaye, made the appeal during a meeting with the supporters of the club in Benin ahead of the crucial league tie between Insurance of Benin and Shooting Stars Ibadan. The duo addressed the supporters against the background of the maltreatment and intimidations they suffered in the hands of J. Atete supporters at the Otujeremi Stadium during the week 13 match between the two teams which ended abruptly following J. Atete supporters’ hooliganism. The deputy governor who will be debuting for Insurance against the 3SC condemned the Atete incident but appealed to the Insurers not to transfer the aggression on Shooting Stars and others ,maintaining that Edo is known for peace and hospitality. The deputy governor also called on Edo football fans, including Bendel Insurance supporters club to rally round the club as the Insurers go into the most important game of the season against bitter rivals 3SC. “Ï am confident our boys can beat them here. If we play the way we did against them in Ibadan, then victory is sure. ” Shaibu said. Coach Bazuaye, while speaking on the team’s readiness for the Saturday match, which many described as the clash of the titans, expressed optimism that Insurance will pick the three points and go ahead to finish top on the table. He added that the team is not under any pressure as the players are in a relaxed mood and ready for the game. Insurance need to beat 3SC to guarantee their chances of promotion to the elite football division in the country. Meanwhile, history is about to be made in the Nigeria national League as Bendel Insurance football Club of Benin is set to take on their arch rivals, 3SC of Ibadan with the host team concluding plans to feed their chairman and Deputy Governor of Edo State, Rt Hon Comrade Philip Shaibu. According to the media officer of the Benin Arsenal, Kehinde Osagiede, the athletic Deputy Governor who is à registered player of the club with jersey No. 40 has regularly been training with the other players of the club hoping to be featured before end of the current season. His training has been a great moral booster to his “colleague players”. The Point was reliably informed that the sports loving Deputy Governor has passed fitness test and therefore fit into the game plan against the Shooting Stars. Comrade Shaibu, who has been outstandingly supportive to the club since his assumption of office, if eventually featured in the match, will be making history as the first serving deputy governor to have featured in a competitive football match in the country. He would be pairing with Jnr Osaghae and Ugwu in the attack as he has always enjoyed playing striking role even in his playing days with his former club, Julius Berger FC in Abuja. Insurance currently occupy second position on the league table in group B1 while their visitors top the table ,but have played more matches than Insurance who have outstanding match against J. Atete which has been rescheduled for 25th of this month . The League game billed for the University of Benin Sports Complex is described by football followers as the star match of the week that will define the status of both teams as the League season draws to an end. Both teams played draw in Ibadan when Insurance visited in the first round early in the season and will want to take home advantage to get the maximum points they need to finish top of the table and possibly gain promotion to the elite football division. 