The Civil Liberties Organisation has expressed fear that the Federal Government’s fight against corruption in the country is taking an ethnic colouration. The President of the organization, Wisdom Durueke, who made the observation during a chat in Owerri, the Imo State capital, noted that such digression, if not tackled, might make it very difficult in winning the fight against corruption in the country. He noted that it had always been very difficult to fight corruption in Nigeria because of ethnic colouration, which people attached to the issue. “Fighting corruption in Nigeria is becoming a bigger problem because we have ethnicised corruption in the country,” Durueke said. He urged that the government to change its method and start on a clean slate, saying, “I think if we want to make a headway, there is need for us to start on a clean slate. “If you have to prosecute a person, do not do so because he is not a member of your political party or because the person is from the south or east, prosecute the person because he is criminally indicted.” The CLO president faulted some investigations being carried out by anti-graft agencies in the country, adding that a lot of people tend to blame the courts for failed corruption cases instead of blaming the anti- corruption agencies for lack of depth in their investigations. “A lot of people tend to shift the blame on the court, but this is wrong. A court is like a clearing house. If investigation was not properly carried out, prosecution becomes difficult. If you look at the problem of investigations carried out so far, it has always been administrative issue following the failure of EFCC to come out straight and clear on every investigation.” He said that Nigeria should sustain the war on corruption because it had dwelt a big blow to the country in every facet of the economy. Durueke also blamed the security agency that cleared former finance minister, Kemi Adeosun, when she was first appointed a commissioner in Ogun State for the NYSC certificate forgery. He said that the call for the prosecution of the former minister, who recently resigned her plum job following the discovery of her forged NYSC exemption certificate, would not help the authorities to get to the root of the matter. Durueke who spoke during a “Face2Face” interactive session with members of the Correspondents’ chapel of Imo State NUJ in Owerri, said that the security officials that cleared Adeosun when she was first appointed a commissioner, including the House of Assembly that screened her and the National Assembly that later screened her as a minister, have questions to answer on the issue. “What was the report of security agency that cleared her? What did they find and why didn’t they report their findings to the National Assembly or to the appropriate quarters,” he said. He frowned at the level of corruption in our institutions, and wondered how the ex-minister managed to pass the integrity test during her screening. “She might have gone through the integrity test. So who passed her? It goes to show the level of decadence in our institutions. We need to use the case to unearth so many things; we should not focus on Kemi alone,” Durueke said. The CLO president urged Nigerians to monitor and report the lifestyle of members of the anti-graft agencies, especially EFCC officials, to the police. “If you observe any member of EFCC living above his means, you can raise a petition to the police even though we know we have problem monitoring people’s income and lifestyle in this country,” he said. On the 2019 election, Durueke urged INEC to declare election result polling unit by polling unit, adding that by so doing, it would be difficult to rig or manipulate the results. “I see nothing wrong if INEC also puts these results on its website. It will help to discourage election petitions,” he said. 