  Adebukola Ogunfemi A clarion call has gone to those going through one form of domestic violence or the other to speak up, speak out, get help, speak to the right people, seek social support and seek counselling because they need to heal. “If you don’t heal properly, it can affect you, it can even affect your mental health as survivors.  Speak up, speak out and get professional help.’’ These were the words of Mrs. Titilayo Vivour-Adeniyi, Coordinator, Lagos State Domestic and Sexual Violence Response Team, DSVRT, at a dinner/award night to honour those who have made important contributions to the war on Domestic Violence and Child Abuse. The Lagos State Domestic and Sexual Violence Response Team, DSVRT, is a collection of professional service providers and officials that responds swiftly and adequately to the various needs of domestic and sexual violence, victims can dial *682*0# The theme for this year’s activities is; “Securing the Home against Violence: Everyone’s Responsibility.” The activities ended with the Dinner/Commendation Night on Friday 28th September 29, 2018, at Excel Events Center, Billings Way, Oregun, Ikeja.  The purpose of this event was to acknowledge and celebrate the efforts of selfless individuals. The premier of a short movie titled; “Surviving”, the true story of a survivor (names withheld), helped by the DSVRT was shown during the dinner.  The movie highlighted the offers rendered to the victims by Lagos State government such as medicals, grants in case of relocation, professional counselling and therapy and Family Social Services. The most important thing for the victim to do is to speak out. The award recognized and acknowledged the selfless efforts of individuals; they also encouraged outstanding performance in the area of domestic abuse. They have made the fight against gender and domestic abuse easier in the society. Among the lucky winners were Pastor Mrs Jegede Busola, Project Alert, MTN and Airtel for the most supporting corporate organizations. In an exclusive interview with The Point, Adeniyi further explained that the main goal of the body is, if we cannot prevent the incidences from happening in the first place, we want to reduce it to the barest minimum. “Our main goal is to prevent it. Proactive, not reactive,” She said. Her message to the survivors is; ‘’the most important thing is to speak up, speak out, get help, speak to the right people, seek social support, seek counselling, you need to heal. If you don’t heal properly, it can affect you, it can even affect the mental health of survivors.  Speak up, speak out and get professional help.’’ She concluded. 