I still love her, I don’t want divorce- Hubby A house wife, kikelomo Amosun, has dragged her estranged husband, Shola Amosun, before a Customary Court sitting in Ake, Abeokuta, Ogun State, for allegedly beating her and leaving her with with injured and bloodied mouth. Kikelomo, in a suit numbered : C/208/2018 told the court that her husband was fond of beating her to such an extent that she would bleed in the mouth and eventually land in a hospital to treat herself. The mother of a set of twins accused her husband of four years, from whom she separated since June this year, of being fond of attacking and beating her up in her own rented apartment. She, however, prayed the court to immediately dissolve her marriage to Amosun. Kikelomo, therefore, sought the order of the court to dissolve their marriage on the ground of provocation,  no rest of mind, frequent fighting and threatening of her life by her husband. She also told the court to restrain her husband from coming to any apartment rented by her or her place of work, to foment trouble, praying the court to order Amosun to pay maintenance fee for the upkeep of the children. She also said that she refused to use the surname of her husband on the children’s medical forms because he abandoned her when she was pregnant for him. Kikelomo said, “My husband is fond of beating me mercilessly to the extent that he beat me one day and all my teeth was bleeding and I had to go to a hospital very close to where I live to treat myself. “He always comes to the house I rented with my money to beat me up . I want free dissolution of our marriage on the ground of provocation, no rest of mind, frequent fighting and threatening to life. “I purposely did not put his name on the children’s medical form because he abandoned me when I got pregnant for him. I want the court to restrain my husband from coming to my house or place of work to foment trouble and also order him to be paying maintenance fee for the children.” In his defense, the estranged husband pleaded with the court to help him to beg his wife, stressing that he still loved her and was not interested in any divorce. He promised that he would stop beating her. Amosun said that one of the reasons he beat his wife regularly was because she refused introduce him to any of her family members and she did not include his surname on the medical forms for the
twins.. “I beat my wife because I do not know any of her family members and she never used my father’s name on our twins’ medical forms. But I want this court to help me to beg her and I promise I won’t beat her again,” he said.. The  President of the court, Mrs O. O.  Sam-Obaleye, ordered Amosun to sign an undertaking not to physically abuse his wife again and adjourned the case to January 31, 2019. 