 Francis Kadiri  As stakeholders continue to call on the Federal Government to resuscitate Ajaokuta Steel Company reputed as the bedrock of Nigeria’s industrialisation, the government has expressed readiness to partner with investors to develop the Iron Ore mining and add value to the country’s economy. The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Abubakar Bawa Bwari said that even if previous administrations paid lip service to the development of the steel sector, the Buhari administration is genuinely committed to developing the sector, adding that the huge economic benefits associated with Iron Ore mining and processing locally, will be harnessed. “When we do this locally, it will help curb the exorbitant importation of scrapped steel products,” he said adding that it is one of the key goals of the sector. The minister, who was addressing officials of Kogi Iron Nigeria Limited in his office, Abuja, commended the organisation for their resilience in overcoming challenges in the development of the project and assured that government ease of doing business has opened investment gateways to foreign investors who are already investing in the sector. According to him, the mineral resources the country is endowed with should be properly harnessed in order to overcome our socio-economic development and this is attainable with the support of the investors in the sector. He said the administration is optimistic that Iron Ore mining will industrialize the economy and, consequently, has increased funding and developed infrastructure that can accommodate indigenous mining that is of global standard. Country Manager of Kogi Iron, Mr. Alabi Samuel, said the visit was to update the Ministry and Minister on their activities in the on-going Iron Ore project. He recalled that the group commenced the exploration in 2010 and finished 2013 and after that went into determining the mineral reserve, its quality and products that can be benefited from the mining. The Chief Executive, Mr. Martin Wood, said the company has spent many years exploring the economic way to develop the project and decided not to just build an Iron Ore deposit for export but to build a mine of Iron Ore, which is the feed stock for steel production in Nigeria that can be sold in the local market. This, he said, is a better project for shareholders of his company, their partners and Nigeria because at the moment import a lot of steel products and the company can complement by producing high quality steel products that can enable the existing raw mills and converters operating in Nigeria to manufacture high quality wire and sheet steel for infrastructural development. He assured that they can produce high quality steel product that is internationally recognized from the Agbaja Iron Ore with low phosphorous and other elements, as confirmed by their South African consultants and as a proof have been able to produce 50 kilos of high quality steel product. He later offered a sample of the quality steel and a paper presentation, which among other things, gave details of stakeholders that may be able to assist them and also appealed for patience as the project will involve many processes before taking off. 