… as Ambode links Sanwo-Olu to drug, fake dollar peddling The struggle for the soul of Lagos by different camps in the Lagos All Progressives Congress has taken a dirty turn as Governor Akinwunmi Ambode opens cans of worms to prove to Lagosians why his opponent in the APC primary race, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, is no match for him. Ambode, at a world press conference, in Lagos on Sunday, tore Sanwo-Olu, the anointed of the National Leader, Bola Tinubu, to shreds, when he revealed his alleged filthy past. According to him, Sanwo-Olu had been arrested in the United States for spending fake American dollars at an American nightclub, and had been in drug rehabilitation for a while, among other dirty facts. He said this just as party leaders insisted that he would not get the ticket of the party, pointing out that he was a beneficiary of the same system he was trying to fight. While listing reasons Lagosians could not vote Sanwo-Olu as his successor, Ambode said, “Party leaders have been misled to think my opposition is a better candidate. This aspirant has been arrested for spending fake American dollars in an American night club. This was somebody that was rehabilited in a general hospital. The records are there at Gbagada General Hospital. We don’t want to go too far. Our leaders should have a rethink. We are committed progressives.” A prominent leader of the party in Lagos, who is in the Sanwo-Olu camp, blasted Ambode, saying fighting dirty would not help him. “If he likes, let him bring out a dead body that he would claim Sanwo-Olu just killed yesterday, it will not stop party members from doing what they know is right for Lagos and Lagosians as a whole. How did he get there? If other people, who had lined up to take the governorship ticket had fought the way he is doing now, will he be Governor today? It’s not about Tinubu; it is about Lagos. Ambode should go and test his popularity at the primary,” he said “A group also said they discovered that Ambode had a history of insanity when he was presented. But we dismissed it and went ahead with him. So he is free to say anything about Tinubu,” another APC chieftain, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, owing to the sensitivity of the matter, said. A former APC Chairman in Lagos State, Henry Ajomale, also told our correspondent that the allegations would not affect Sanwo-Olu’s chances in the primary. “I don’t think that will affect Sanyaolu’s chances in tomorrow’s primary election because the allegations have not been proved. Ambode needs to prove the allegations. The allegations have not been established. It is a legal issue. He just said it, let us find out. You as a journalist can also do your investigation whether the allegations are true,” he said. On his part, a former South West Vice Chairman of CAN, and now chieftain of APC in Lagos State, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, said, “You are talking to a wrong quarter. You are a journalist. If Ambode makes such allegations, your question as to whether it will affect Sanwo-Olu’s chance in tomorrow’s primary should not be directed to me. As a party leader, I am not supposed to be supporting a particular aspirant. You know INEC also supervises party primaries. Find out from INEC agents if such allegations may work against Sanwo-Olu. As a journalist, you said it all, “allegations”. Until such allegations are backed up with evidences, it remains allegations.” 