Ahead of Saturday’s Peoples Democratic Party Presidential primary, a former Ogun State Governor, Otunba Gbenga Daniel on Friday highlighted reasons why a former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar will emerge as the party’s Presidential candidate. Daniel said the Waziri of Adamawa was the “most competent, most capable aspirant, the best option and the man who is ready for the task of getting Nigeria working again,” hence he should be PDP’s Presidential candidate. The former governor, who is the Director General, Atiku Presidential Campaign Organisation, insisted that only Abubakar can guarantee PDP’s hope of defeating President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019 and “restore power back to Nigerians.” In a statement he personally signed the former governor , he wrote, “I have the greatest pleasure to present Atiku Abubakar, GCON, the Waziri Adamawa, former Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as the most competent, most capable aspirant, the best option and the man who is ready for the task of getting Nigeria working again, as the candidate for our political party in the February, 2019 Presidential election. “In the next few hours, PDP delegates from various destinations across the country will be saddled with the responsibility of saving our dear nation; you will be expected to choose for the Peoples Democratic Party, and of course the whole country, the man who will take over as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “This is a great historical responsibility which Providence has thrust upon you all to help save the ship of the Nigerian state; to put right some of the things that we all know, think and acknowledge that are wrong with this country. My passionate plea, however, is that we should consider ourselves as patriots who out of a population of close to 200 million people, just 4,000 men and women have been selected and elected as delegates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the 2018 National Convention. What this means, in essence, is that we are the pathfinders for a troubled nation in its time of great need. We should bear in mind, that we are not just choosing a presidential candidate for the Peoples Democratic Party but we are bestowed with the responsibility of choosing a President for the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “As we cast our votes, what should be most important in our minds sincerely, leaving every other consideration is, “Who can help Nigeria at this critical time? Who has the capacity to deliver? Who can defeat the All Progressives Congress (APC) and incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari truly on behalf of our great party? “I am persuaded without any iota of doubt that our party, being an Opposition, needs a strong candidate like Atiku Abubakar to face and confront the ruling APC. “A highly successful businessman, the largest employer of labour in the country, who knows and has the wherewithal about creating jobs and employment “A detribalized Nigerian who can unite every segment of the country “Capable of providing Security through massive employment and job creation; coming from a paramilitary background, he is clearly not a novice about security. “Empathic to the plight of ordinary citizens. He is humane. “He has the intellectual wherewithal to make Nigeria work again. Nigerians love him, Nigerians want him. “The destiny and future of Nigeria is in our hands! The citizens are waiting for us to do the right thing by electing Atiku Abubakar so that we can write our names on the golden page of history.” Abubakar will on Saturday slug it out with the like of the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, Senator from Kano, Rabiu Kwankwaso, the Governor of Gombe State, Dankwabo, ex-Kaduna State Governor, Ahmed Makarfi among other presidential aspirants for the PDP’s ticket in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. 