Babajide Sanwo-Olu has broken his silence after he was declared winner of Tuesday’s Lagos governorship primary conducted by the All Progressives Congress. Sanwo-Olu was announced winner of the Lagos governorship primaries, against the wishes of the National Working Committee. APC chairman in Lagos, Tunji Balogun, announced that incumbent, Akinwunmi Ambode polled 72,901 votes, while Sanwo-Olu got 970,851 votes. In a statement signed by the Director General, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu Campaign Organisation, Tayo Ayinde, Sanwo-Olu expressed gratitude to all who voted for him. “We hereby unreservedly express our gratitude to our faithful members for the loyalty, commitments and determination to our great party by participating in the direct gubernatorial primary election in Lagos State on the 2nd of October 2018. “In the same vein, we also like to appreciate the overwhelming moral supports received from non members of our great party during the exercise. “Our sincere appreciation also goes to President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo and all the leaders of our great party for holding true tenet of democracy. “At this juncture, it is pertinent to acknowledge the gallantry displayed by the security agencies, the cooperation of the press and exhibition of close observation by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) during the just concluded direct primary of our great party. “Most importantly, we are grateful to members of the state chapter of our great party who voted for Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu en-masse during the gubernatorial primary election and making him emerge as flag-bearer of our great party for the general election in 2019. “We urge our entire members to remain focused and work assiduously towards the general election in 2019. “To all my party faithful members and 970,851 people who voted overwhelmingly for me during governorship primary election yesterday in Lagos, you all deserve my profound appreciation. You are the hero of our democracy. Thank you once again,” the statement read. 