Hundreds of youths were train in the area of leadership skills, entrepreneurship and having the fear of God always in all their dealings.
Speaking at the 2nd annual youth symposium organized by the Youth Wing Of Jam’iyyat Junud Deenil Islamiy, JJI, in Lagos recently, Dr Shaykh Lukman Jimoh of Kwara State University (KWASU), Dr Salahudeen Munirudeen Arriyady of School of Languages, Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education, Lagos, Barr. Tirimidhi Adisa, Chairman JJI Shurah Committee & Qaddi of the Lagos Sharia Court and Hajia Sekinah Lawal, Chairperson, Women Journalists in Lagos, all admonished the youths through various topics dwelling on entrepreneurship, leadership, ensuring good governance and piety.
Speaking on the need for the youths to go beyond online complaints and criticism of those in authority, but to go a step further by being also very actively involved in the political processes right from the ward level, Hajia Lawal called on the youth to see corruption and indiscipline as the basis of the nation under-development and do all within their capacity to stop the menace.
She urged them to change their mindset and orientation about politics because its success or otherwise affects every facets of human endeavour.
Barrister Adisa called for further collaboration to train our young ones on entrepreneurship and leadership skills while urging them to always think beyond the ordinary and look for more innovative ways of solving social problems thus creating jobs creatively.
Dr Munirudeen Arriyady admonished them on being focused and determined to be the best in life in any area of human endeavor they find themselves by reaching the peak of that career.
Dr Jimoh advised them to do everything within the stipulations of the Quran and Hadeeth of the Prophet, have good role models, be good role models themselves and beware of the evils of the social media. They were however enjoined to take advantage of the internet to learn Quran and every other good thing that can be learnt through the internet.
The event, which was held at Iponri Central Mosque had over 700 youths in attendance, provided the opportunity of training the youths in building a supportive ecosystem for innovation. They were also introduced to contents on political enlightenment and exposure to concepts that will be useful to them as they progress in life. 