The political tension in Lagos State over who becomes the flag bearer of All Progressives Congress in the  2019 governorship election has finally been laid to rest with Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the anointed candidate of the party’s national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, emerging the winner of the direct primary election that was conducted by the state chapter of the party. The Point had exclusively reported some months ago that some members of the party were ready to challenge Tinubu’s political sagacity in the direct primary system that was adopted by APC in Lagos State. Before the primary election, the relationship between the incumbent state governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, and his godfather, Tinubu, was not very good at all even as the state chapter of the party was at the verge of serious division. This followed the decision of the party’s stakeholders and Tinubu to support Sanwo-Olu against Ambode, a development that really ridiculed the governor, and which many believed to be contrary to the status quo since the present democratic dispensation in the state. In a desperate to seek re-election on the platform of the party, Ambode had challenged the position of the party’s leadership by contesting the primary, despite strong indications that he would lose the bid. However, Sanwo-Olu, the anointed candidate, cruised to victory with massive 970, 851 votes as against Ambode’s 72, 901 votes. But beyond the euphoria of clinching the party’s ticket, Sanwo-Olu might  be facing a stiff contest at the poll next year, as some analysts are of the view that the APC governorship flag bearer and his party could lose the election following insinuations that Lagosians might want to test a new party in the state in 2019. A cursory look at the 2015 election saw a close contest between the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party , Jimi Agbaje and the incumbent governor, Ambode, where the vote margin was less than 100, 000. Pundits who opined that Sanwo-Olu might not win the governorship seat so easily hinged their argument on the need for Lagosians to be liberated from the grip of one political godfather, whom they alleged was  holding the state to ransom. According to them, Sanwo-Olu would be confronted with the challenge of having to “satisfy the party leaders and the godfather, Tinubu, beyond reasonable measure”, which apparently would be at the expense of infrastructural development in the state. “I’m afraid there might be infrastructure deficit in Lagos because of the likely obsessive desire by Sanwo-Olu to satisfy the biddings of his party leaders and godfather,” a political analyst, Bayo Adelakun, said. “This no doubt will be at the detriment of Lagosians,” he added. Ambode suffered loss for a second term shot at the governorship for “not being a party man, though a good governor,” as noted by Tinubu. Tinubu had stated when the crisis was hot:  “Who did I support in 2014? Ambode. Life is dynamic. It’s those who made me the leader of the structure in Lagos who said it was what they want. It’s only if you have followers that you’re a leader in democracy. “If I look back and I don’t find them again; if I don’t respond to them, if I fail to accede to their request, I would have failed the leadership test. “This is not personal; it is beyond me as a person. Every democratic constitution is preceded by ‘We, the people’. So, I had to submit myself to the wishes and the yearnings of our party. “This is an elixir for the general election. Ambode Akin, he’s doing well, yes; he hasn’t been a good party man; not only the glamour, not only about brick and mortal. A talent is determined by character. For you to become an influential person, you have to respond to the yearnings of the people. This is politics; democracy, one man, one vote.” Reacting to the result of the primary, a political analyst, Jide Omiyale, said Ambode’s loss was simply because of his poor human relations. “I remember what one of my bosses told me a long time ago. His thesis: as you climb executive ladder in the corporate world, your competence sometimes does not matter much, what counts more is how much can your superiors trust you?  How much can people feel comfortable having you calling the shots? It appears, Ambode is not lucky enough to have gotten such an advice. Ambode’s problem is poor human relations,”Omiyale said. Meanwhile, the challenges before Sanwo-Olu seem to be how to be good in office and how to be good as a party man. Even though he had declared to be a good party man, the challenge of making a good and credible governor appealing to the people through innovative initiatives cannot be undermined. In his declaration earlier,  he had stated ; “I, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-olu shall be a true party man in the real definition of the word by running an inclusive government according to the ideology of the APC and the long-term benefits of the great citizens of Lagos State. Loyalty is the currency of politics. I shall be loyal to the people of Lagos State, the organs and the leadership of the party. “I call on party members and citizens to join me to elevate our State in all facets of human endeavour through improvements, enlightenment and development. “I urge you all to come out with your membership cards and slips to vote for me at the direct primaries ordered by the party so that we can continue the journey towards peace, order and development for the good people of our dear Lagos State. Despite his avowed promises, one wonders whether it would be possible for him to be a good man in office as well be a good party man with a corresponding effect on the state development? Would there be total loyalty to the biddings of the party leaders in their numbers in meeting their diverse demands, without having a negative impact on infrastructure, good governance, dividends of the democracy, economic growth, security of the people amongst other things? These and many more are the questions on the lips of many watchers of political development in the state. From all indications, Sanwoolu might eventually turn out to be party man, who will not only be loyal to the dictates of the party, but also excessively generous to the leaders, stalwarts, members and supporters. This is because, prior to the primary election,  many of the party faithful were quick to identify with the former commissioner, who according to them, would run an inclusive government. Many showed their support through massive mobilization and sponsorship for the party’s anointed candidate. Already, his nickname in local parlance “sanwo eko”, which is interpreted to mean “one who will pay Lagos bills”, is going viral as both young and old continue to chant this appellation. But to these party stalwarts, enjoying collective benefits through improved infrastructure is not really their concern as pointed out by some analysts. These party members, to analysts, are pushing for their own selfish interest, which might be against the general good of the state. By implication, according to those pundits, who predicted infrastructure decline in the state, Sanwo-Olu might not  fall short of this stance. But respite may be coming back to the state over the spate of refuse dumps that have engulfed the mega city since the introduction of the new operator, Visionscape. With the emergence of Sanwo-Olu as the party’s candidate, the reintroduction of Private Sector Partnership in waste management might bring Lagos back to its clean state if he eventually wins the governorship poll next year as  the transition from Visionscape back to PSP might just be seamless. Moreover, approving licenses to these partners might be a daunting task that Sanwo-Olu might find quite challenging. Although existing partners stand a better chance of having their license approved, but new intending partners seeking approval are likely to stretch Mr Sanwoolu above limit, says an environmentalist and political analyst, Dr. Uzo Ezenwa. Beyond this is also the issue of projects yet to be completed by the present administration, which Sanwo-Olu will inherit. Governor Ambode is adjudged by many to have achieved a great feat in infrastructural development and economic growth in the state, though several projects are yet to be completed. Sanwo-Olu is however expected by Lagosians to leave no stone unturned in surpassing his predecessor. Lagos has a history of good governance since the current democratic dispensation. And that culture, many maintain, must not be compromised. Sanwo-Olu hence cannot afford to do less than Ambode if elected governor in 
2019 . Ambode, no doubt, had stepped on some toes aside the allegation that he was not a good party man , especially through his demolitions of coastal communities 
and parks. To succeed in this area, if elected governor, Sanwo-Olu would have to be more careful and considerate in managing impoverished communities, which his predecessor, Ambode, said were causing security threats to the state. “Sanwoolu should be wary of embarking on demolitions in the state, especially communities noted by Ambode to be causing security threats,” said a 
resident. “Ambode destroyed so many communities and infrastructures, but Sanwoolu should be mindful and not take people for 
granted.” 