The Alliance for New Nigeria has said that the party is not interested in forming an alliance with the Coalition for United Political Parties, The People’s Trust or any other political party ahead of the 2019 general elections. ANN Governorship Candidate in Ogun State, Ademola Ogunbanjo, disclosed this in an exclusive interview with our correspondent in Abeokuta, against the backdrop of reports that his party had formed an alliance with the People’s Trust to become Alliance for Peoples Trust. Ogunbanjo said that some aggrieved senior members of ANN, whose aspirants did not emerge the flag bearers of the party decided to merge with the People’s Trust to form APT, stressing that his party was never a part of the merger. The ANN governorship candidate, however, disassociated his party from any form of alliance with the CUPP, APT or any other political party. He said that the ANN remained independent of any other party. Ogunbanjo alleged that the earlier agenda of some of the members of the People’s Trust, when some of its members joined ANN, was to hijack the party, adding that when they failed, they decided to form and register, the PT. He said, “The Alliance for a New Nigeria has not formed a coalition or alliance with CUPP or PT, or any political party and we are not interested because we are an independent political party. “The PT is what is the combination of what used to be known as NIM and NIM had come before to join ANN, when they came and joined ANN, the agenda was to take over ANN. When they realised that they could not take over ANN, they left ANN and joined CUPP, and then they now registered their own party as Peoples Trust. “The Alliance for New Nigeria did not form any alliance with any party whatsoever. What has happened is that certain people, who were the few members of the Alliance for a New Nigeria and after the primary now and their own aspirants did not win, Fela Durotoye won as the candidate for president, they decided to throw tantrums; as they were throwing tantrums, they were looking for a home and they finally found a home in People’s Trust. The insincerity of their group is that they now said that Alliance for New Nigeria has formed an alliance with People’s Trust and the name of Peoples Trust will now change to Alliance for Peoples Trust. “Meanwhile, what had just happened is that the few senior members of ANN defected to Peoples Trust so that that their own candidate who lost at the ANN primaries will go and become the flag bearer at the Peoples Trust. The Alliance for New Nigeria is still the Alliance for New Nigeria and the name of the National Chairman is Emmanuel Daniel.” 