 …says we’ll only accept candidates nominated by Bayo Dayo for 2019 polls  SEGUN AYINDE, Abeokuta  The Independent National Electoral Commission has recognised the faction of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ogun State backed by Senator Buruji Kashamu. INEC has, therefore, said that it would only accept and publish the lists of candidates submitted by the Chief Adebayo Dayo-led State Executive Committee of the PDP in Ogun State for the 2019 general elections. The Dayo-led state PDP exco is backed by Kashamu. The commission in a letter addressed to the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus and dated October 25, 2018, its Acting Secretary, Okechukwu Ndeche, informed the leadership of the main opposition party that only the candidates nominated by the Dayo-led exco of the party in Ogun would be allowed by INEC to contest next year’s polls on its platform in the state. Citing three different court cases instituted by Dayo, the Ogun PDP factional chairman, and a member of the PDP National Working Committee, Alhaji Adewole Adeyanju, against INEC, the PDP National Working Committee and others, the electoral body said in the two-page letter obtained by our correspondent that, “The Federal High Court in the matters ordered the commission to recognise Adebayo Dayo-led State Executive Committee of PDP in Ogun State and receive list of candidates for the 2019 governorship, National Assembly and State Houses of Assembly Elections from the said committee. “You will recall that the Commission vide a letter dated 12th April, 2018 informed your party of the commission’s compliance with the judgments of the Federal High Court in suit Nos FHC/L/CFS/636/2016- Engr. Adebayo Dayo & Anor vs INEC & 5 Ors and FHC/L/CS/1856/2017- Alhaji Adewole Adeyanju (Member PDP National Working Committee) and 6 Ors vs INEC and 30 Ors which affirmed the decision of the Federal High Court in Suit Nos FHC/L/CFS/636/2016, which is subsisting until it is set aside. “Further to the above decision, the Federal High Court, Abeokuta Division,  on 2nd October 2018 in suit No. FHC/ABJ/CFS/636/2016- Engr. Adebayo Dayo ( State Chairman) & 8 Ors vs INEC & 3 Ors also order the commission to recognise Adebayo Dayo-led State Executive Committee of PDP in Ogun State and receive list of candidates for the 2019 Governorship, National Assembly and State House of Assembly Elections from the said committee. “Consequently, the commission hereby notes the decision of the Federal High Court in the above referred cases and will publish the lists of candidates submitted by the Adebayo Dayo-led State Executive Committee of Ogun State pursuant to the Orders of the Federal High Court until they are set aside. 